{"url": "http://www.bbc.com/sport/football/40800757", "text": " Neymar: Paris St-Germain must pay \u00c2\u00a3198m 'in full' to sign Barcelona forward - BBC Sport Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC iD Notifications BBC navigation Home Home News News Sport Weather Shop Earth Travel Capital iPlayer Culture Autos Future TV Radio CBBC CBeebies Food iWonder Bitesize Travel Music Earth Arts Make It Digital Taster Nature Local Menu SearchSearch the BBCSearch the BBC BBCSPORT All Sport All Sport Home Football Formula 1 Cricket Rugby U Tennis Golf Athletics Cycling BBC Sport Home Football Formula 1 Cricket Rugby Union Tennis Golf Athletics Cycling A-Z Sports American Football Athletics Basketball Boxing Cricket Cycling Darts Disability Sport Football Formula 1 Gaelic Games Golf Gymnastics Horse Racing Motorsport Olympic Sports Rugby League Rugby Union Snooker Swimming Tennis Winter Sports Full Sports A-Z Events Euro 2016 Rio 2016 Around the UK England Scotland Wales Northern Ireland World Sport European Football Champions League African Football Football European Football Scores & Fixtures Tables Champions League Europa League Scores & Fixtures All Teams Leagues & Cups Scores & Fixtures Tables Champions League Europa League European Football Home More from Football Scores & Fixtures All Teams Leagues & Cups Football Home Neymar: Paris St-Germain must pay \u00c2\u00a3198m 'in full' to sign Barcelona forward By Saj Chowdhury BBC Sport 2 Aug From the section European Football Share this page Share this with Digg Facebook Google LinkedIn Reddit StumbleUpon Twitter Copy this link http://www.bbc.com/sport/football/40800757 Read more about sharing. Neymar arrived for training at Barcelona on Wednesday, and told his team-mates he wanted to leaveBarcelona have told Paris St-Germain they must pay a world record 222m euro (\u00a3198m) fee \"in full\" before Neymar can join them.The Brazil international arrived at training on Wednesday with his father and representative, and told the Spanish club he wanted to leave.He was then given permission by Barca manager Ernesto Valverde not to train and to \"sort out his future\".PSG are understood to be ready to pay the 25-year-old's release clause.How do you feel about a \u00a3198m footballer? Vote & reactionAnalysis - what now for Barcelona? What was the moment Neymar decided to leave?How can PSG afford to pay \u00a3198m for Neymar?BBC Minute: 'Neymar's move to PSG is more than just about football'The latest development comes two days after it emerged Barca were ready to push for a Financial Fair Play investigation if PSG signed Neymar.That came after La Liga president Javier Tebas threatened, in an interview with Mundo Deportivo, a legal response against the former Ligue 1 champions if European football's governing body failed to take action. He also said PSG president Nasser Al-Khelaifi had been made aware of the Spanish league's intentions.Team-mate Lionel Messi has paid tribute to the 25-year-old. He wrote in an Instagram post: \"It was a great pleasure to have shared all these years with you my friend Neymar. I wish you good luck in this new stage of your life. See you tomorrow.\"Neymar responded to the post saying: \"Thank you brother.. I will miss you uncle!\"This content will not work on your device, please check Javascript and cookies are enabled or update your browserNeymar moved to Barcelona from Brazilian club Santos in 2013 for \u00a348.6m, and signed a new five-year deal with the 24-time Spanish champions in 2016.His representative Wagner Ribeiro, who on Wednesday tweeted he was in Paris, said last year that his client had been offered a tax-free \u00a3650,000 a week to sign for the French club.He also said the forward \"was close to a move to Manchester United\".Rumours of Neymar's potential departure resurfaced recently, but club president Josep Maria Bartomeu told the BBC the player would be staying.Neymar played for the Catalan side in the recent International Champions Cup in the United States, before travelling to China to fulfil commercial commitments.He travelled back to Spain on Tuesday and returned to the club's training ground on Wednesday.The Brazilian has scored 105 goals for Barcelona, helping them to two league titles, three Copas del Rey and a Champions League crown. Media playback is not supported on this device Brazil star Neymar lights up 2014 World CupAnalysis - 'This transfer has a distinct political overtone'BBC Radio 5 live sports news correspondent Richard Conway\"Revons plus grand\" PSG's motto is hard to avoid at their stadium, Parc de Princes.The translation? \"Dream bigger\"PSG's owners, Qatari Sports Investment (QSI), are the upstarts within the European game and determined to disrupt the old order. QSI is an arm of Qatar's sovereign wealth fund - so PSG's ambitions are backed by the enormous natural gas wealth of the Gulf state. Qatar is locked in a bitter dispute with its Arab neighbours - so this transfer has a distinct political overtone as it seeks to show it will not be diminished or cowed by an ongoing trade blockade and a diplomatic war of words.Having secured the World Cup in 2022, Doha sees PSG as one of the ways through which the state can achieve its ambitions.Uefa's Financial Fair Play regulations have certainly tempered PSG's elaborate spending in recent seasons, and Neymar's arrival would represent a serious challenge to the club in this respect - but there's confidence within PSG's boardroom that it will not be a significant issue.Ultimately this deal will not be judged in the governmental salons of Doha nor on a spreadsheet. Instead, success must be delivered through PSG capturing arguably the club game's greatest trophy, the Champions League.What will Barcelona be missing?Neymar is one third of Barcelona's 'MSN' strikeforce, which also includes Lionel Messi and Luis Suarez.In the past three seasons, they have scored 250 goals between them in 299 appearances.But they do more than just score...Click to see content: MSNClick to see content: MSN_chances_createdClick to see content: Neymar_StatsClick to see content: Neymar_assists View Comments \u00a0 Share this page Share this with Digg Facebook Google LinkedIn Reddit StumbleUpon Twitter Copy this link http://www.bbc.com/sport/football/40800757 Read more about sharing. Find out more Match of the Day Facebook Read more on Match of the Day Facebook Match of the Day Twitter Read more on Match of the Day Twitter BBC Sport Facebook Read more on BBC Sport Facebook BBC Sport Twitter Read more on BBC Sport Twitter Top Stories Bolt beaten but through to 100m final - text coverage Live From the section Athletics Read more on Bolt beaten but through to 100m final - text coverage Anderson & Bairstow help England take charge of fourth Test 5 Aug From the section Cricket Read more on Anderson & Bairstow help England take charge of fourth Test Griffiths double helps champions Celtic thump Hearts 5 Aug From the section Football Read more on Griffiths double helps champions Celtic thump Hearts Related to this story \u00c2\u00a3200m for a footballer - how do you feel? 3 Aug From the section European Football Read more on Neymar to Paris St-Germain: \u00c2\u00a3200m for a footballer - how do you feel? The moment that sparked Neymar\u00e2\u0080\u0099s 222m euros exit? 3 Aug From the section European Football Read more on Neymar: Was this the moment PSG target decided to leave Barcelona? Neymar set to leave Barcelona - reaction 2 Aug From the section European Football Read more on Neymar set to leave Barcelona - reaction What can I buy for one Neymar? 2 Aug From the section BBC News Read more on What can I buy for the price of one Neymar? Also on BBC Sport... NBA star Stephen Curry opens with 74 on pro golf debut Reality Check: Can PSG get away with \u00c2\u00a3198m fee for Neymar? 'Crazy for cricket' - how one man (and his kit bag) gives refugees hope in Serbia Stuck in makeshift camps in Serbia, refugees who have fled war zones are finding solace on the cricket pitch. Kubica's return after 18 operations - one of sport's greatest comebacks? 'It was the first time I've been scared in sport' - what was it that so worried double Olympic champion Sarah Ayton? How clubs use social media and body language to research potential signings F1 on holiday - what could change in the summer break? How Monaco became Europe's football talent factory Steve Cram's ten stars to watch at London 2017 Football notifications, social media and more Get latest scores and headlines sent straight to your phone, sign-up to our newsletter and learn where to find us on online. Today's football gossip The latest rumours and stories from around the world of football. Commentaries, clips and podcasts Enjoy the best debate, analysis and interviews with 5 live and World Service football plus our commentary listings. How to get into Football How to get into football - the most popular sport in the world, with clubs and facilities throughout the UK. Explore the BBC Famous family connections Can you name these pop stars' celebrity relatives? Back to top European Football Scores & Fixtures Tables Champions League Europa League European Football Home More from Football Scores & Fixtures All Teams Leagues & Cups Football Home News Feeds Help & FAQs Explore the BBC Home Home News News Sport Weather Shop Earth Travel Capital iPlayer Culture Autos Future TV Radio CBBC CBeebies Food iWonder Bitesize Travel Music Earth Arts Make It Digital Taster Nature Local Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Advertise with us Ad choices Copyright \u00a9 2017 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking. "}