{"url": "http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/athletics/40796425", "text": " Usain Bolt: Jamaican sprinter says dopers must stop or athletics 'will die' - BBC Sport Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC iD Notifications BBC navigation Home Home News News Sport Weather Shop Earth Travel Capital iPlayer Culture Autos Future TV Radio CBBC CBeebies Food iWonder Bitesize Travel Music Earth Arts Make It Digital Taster Nature Local Menu SearchSearch the BBCSearch the BBC BBCSPORT All Sport All Sport My Sport Home Football Formula 1 Cricket Rugby U Rugby L Tennis Golf Athletics BBC Sport Home Football Formula 1 Cricket Rugby Union Rugby League Tennis Golf Athletics My Sport A-Z Sports American Football Athletics Basketball Boxing Cricket Cycling Darts Disability Sport Football Formula 1 Gaelic Games Get Inspired Golf Gymnastics Horse Racing Motorsport Olympic Sports Rugby League Rugby Union Snooker Swimming Tennis Winter Sports Full Sports A-Z Events Euro 2016 Rio 2016 Around the UK England Scotland Wales Northern Ireland Programmes Match of the Day 5 Live Sport Sports Personality Sport on the BBC All Programmes Athletics Results Calendar Results Calendar Athletics Home Usain Bolt: Jamaican sprinter says dopers must stop or athletics 'will die' 1 Aug From the section Athletics Share this page Share this with Digg Facebook Google LinkedIn Reddit StumbleUpon Twitter Copy this link http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/athletics/40796425 Read more about sharing. Media playback is not supported on this device Usain Bolt tells BBC sports editor Dan Roan that if athletes keep doping, the sport will 'die'World Athletics Championships on the BBCVenue: London Stadium Dates: 4-13 AugustCoverage: Live across BBC One and Two, BBC Radio 5 live, BBC Radio 5 live sports extra, the BBC Sport website and app.Usain Bolt says athletes who dope must \"stop or the sport will die\" as he prepares to race for the final time in his illustrious career. Bolt, an eight-time Olympic champion and icon of world sport, will retire after this month's World Championships. The Jamaican, 30, will run in the 100m and 4x100m at the Worlds, which begin in London on Friday.\"Hopefully athletes will see what's going on and what they need to do to help the sport move forward,\" he said. Referring to the McLaren report, which uncovered evidence of a Russian state-sponsored doping programme, he added: \"Personally I think we were at rock bottom. After the scandal on Russia I don't think it gets any worse than that.Steve Cram's 10 stars to watch (apart from Bolt and Farah)\"Over the years we're doing a better job, it's getting clean and we're catching up to a lot of athletes. There's an understanding that if you cheat you will get caught. Over time the sport will get better.\"I said a couple of years ago it had to get really bad, when there's nowhere else to go but up. Doping is always a bad thing and it's never pleasant because you put in the hard work and the sport starts going forward and then you have other guys bringing it back, it's hard. \"It's going in the right direction so hopefully it will continue in that direction.\"'I'm still the fastest'The men's World 100m final is on Saturday, 5 August, while the men's 4x100m relay race - which will mark the end of Bolt's career - is on the following Saturday.Bolt has won 100m, 200m and 4x100m gold at the past three Olympic Games - Beijing 2008, London 2012 and Rio 2016.Listen to Bolt: 100 days that shook the world (19.30 BST, 1 August, BBC Radio 5 live and as a podcast shortly after broadcast)Watch: The Heroes of Super SaturdayListen: 'Bolt changed funeral atmosphere before races'However, his unprecedented 'triple triple' of nine gold medals was downgraded to eight after Jamaican team-mate Nesta Carter, who was part of the quartet that won the 4x100m in Beijing, tested positive for a banned substance. Carter has appealed against the decision. Media playback is not supported on this device Late friend Mason is 'always on my mind' - BoltNevertheless, Bolt's exploits remain unprecedented and he also holds the world record in the 100m (9.58 seconds) and 200m (19.19).Asked if he still believes he is the fastest in the world, the Jamaican replied: \"Yeah, without a doubt.\"The last race I ran was a 9.95, so that shows I am going in the right direction. After the two rounds leading up to the 100m final, which always help me, it's all about who keeps their nerve. \"I have been here many times. I know I am ready.\"Asked in an interview with BBC Sport whether he believes his world records will be broken, he replied: \"I hope they're not. No athlete would ever wish for that - I want to brag to my kids when they're in their 20s: 'See, I'm still the best!\"There is no-one around now, in this era, who can do it. No. Maybe in a couple of years, 10 years, but my records are safe for now.\"Athletics after BoltBolt was also asked which of the current stars of track and field could potentially replace him as the pre-eminent force in the sport.Van Niekerk broke Michael Johnson's 17-year-old 400m world record to sensationally win Olympic gold at Rio 2016He named South African 25-year-old Wayde van Niekerk, who will be competing in the 400m and 200m in London. \"Wayde van Niekerk is proving he is a world star. He has broken the 400m world record, he ran the fastest 300m ever, and now he's doing the 200m also. For me, he's proving that he can step up to the plate,\" said Bolt.\"I'm watching him, we've had discussions and he's a cool person but I've told him to open up his personality a little bit because he's really laid back.\"Bolt after athleticsBolt says he will miss the \"thrill\" of being on the track but that it is time for him to slow down and enjoy himself.\"The energy when you first walk out on the track and the people go crazy, that's what I'll miss the most,\" he said.He might manage to replace the buzz of competing with one of his hobbies, though.\"I ride quad bikes, that's an adrenaline rush,\" he said.\"But I think it's time for me to slow down a little, relax a little bit. Enjoy myself as much as possible.\" He says he does not think he will reconsider his retirement as he has nothing left to prove - and of his legacy added that he wanted to be considered among the greatest sports figures of all time.\"I just want to be one of the greats,\" he said. \"Whenever there's a conversation about the greatest sports stars, I want to be part of that conversation. I want people to say: 'Yeah, Usain Bolt was one of the greatest'.\"Asked if it was his mind or body saying 'enough', he replied: \"It's the body, definitely. \"Over the years, I've got more niggling injuries than anything else, simple little things, but it's just because I'm getting older. The pounding means my body's just deteriorating now, so for me it's just time to go.\" Media playback is not supported on this device Bolt wins 100m in 9.95 secs in Monaco View Comments \u00a0 Share this page Share this with Digg Facebook Google LinkedIn Reddit StumbleUpon Twitter Copy this link http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/athletics/40796425 Read more about sharing. Find out more London 2017 official website Read more on London 2017 official website British Athletics Read more on British Athletics IAAF Read more on IAAF UK Sport Read more on UK Sport Top Stories Bolt bids for 100m gold - TV, clips, radio & text Live From the section Athletics Read more on Bolt bids for 100m gold - TV, clips, radio & text Anderson & Bairstow help England take charge of fourth Test 5 Aug From the section Cricket Read more on Anderson & Bairstow help England take charge of fourth Test Griffiths double helps champions Celtic thump Hearts 5 Aug From the section Football Read more on Griffiths double helps champions Celtic thump Hearts Related to this story Bolt is a genius like Ali - Lord Coe 1 Aug From the section Athletics Read more on Usain Bolt is a genius like Muhammad Ali, says Lord Coe Coe cannot guarantee clean Worlds 23 Jul From the section Athletics Read more on World Athletics Championships 2017: IAAF president Lord Coe cannot guarantee clean championships World Championships - who to watch and when 5 Aug From the section Athletics Read more on World Athletics Championships 2017: Timetable, main events & BBC TV times World Athletics Championships on BBC TV, radio and online 27 Jul From the section Athletics Read more on World Athletics Championships 2017: BBC TV, radio and online coverage Also on BBC Sport... NBA star Stephen Curry opens with 74 on pro golf debut Reality Check: Can PSG get away with \u00c2\u00a3198m fee for Neymar? 'Crazy for cricket' - how one man (and his kit bag) gives refugees hope in Serbia Stuck in makeshift camps in Serbia, refugees who have fled war zones are finding solace on the cricket pitch. Kubica's return after 18 operations - one of sport's greatest comebacks? 'It was the first time I've been scared in sport' - what was it that so worried double Olympic champion Sarah Ayton? How clubs use social media and body language to research potential signings F1 on holiday - what could change in the summer break? How Monaco became Europe's football talent factory Steve Cram's ten stars to watch at London 2017 Athletics on the BBC World Athletics Championships: Day two Sat 5 Aug, 18:30 BST, BBC One World Athletics Championships: Day two Sat 5 Aug, 19:00 BST, BBC Radio 5 live 5 live track and field: The Record Fakers Sun 6 Aug, 10:00 BST, BBC Radio 5 live Show more World Championships Key info London: 4-13 August Medal table & GB medallistsLondon 2017 resultsSchedule & event guideGreat Britain & NI team2015 champions & GB medallistsOfficial London 2017 website Featured How to get into Athletics How to get into athletics - one of the widest ranges of choice in sport, from jumps and throws to sprints or distance running. What's on BBC Sport this week This week's sport on the BBC includes the World Athletics Championships, Arsenal v Chelsea in the FA Community Shield and the return of the English Football League. Explore the BBC Famous family connections Can you name these pop stars' celebrity relatives? Get Inspired Activity Finder Run by the BBC and partners Find ways to get active near you: Enter your town, city or postcode: Search Sat 05 Aug Wakefield Closed Circuit Ride - St Thomas a Becket Sat 05 Aug Summer Slalom Ski Training For more ideas, information and inspiration, visit bbc.co.uk/getinspired Back to top Athletics Results Calendar Athletics Home News Feeds Help & FAQs Explore the BBC Home Home News News Sport Weather Shop Earth Travel Capital iPlayer Culture Autos Future TV Radio CBBC CBeebies Food iWonder Bitesize Travel Music Earth Arts Make It Digital Taster Nature Local Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Advertise with us Ad choices Copyright \u00a9 2017 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking. "}