{"url": "http://www.theonion.com/article/turns-out-craig-counsell-was-actually-best-basebal-6581", "text": "Turns Out Craig Counsell Was Actually Best Baseball Player Of Steroid Era - The Onion - America's Finest News Source Search Search + The Trump Documents Video Politics Sports Local Entertainment Science & Technology Onion Store Our Company About Us Contact Advertise Careers The Onion Store Privacy Policy Special Coverage Onion, Inc. Sites The Onion The A.V. Club ClickHole Onion Studios The Onion is not intended for readers under 18 years of age. \u00a9 Copyright 2017 Onion Inc. All rights reserved. Sports+ Rec Sports League Organizer Needs To Cool It With The Emails BAKERSFIELD, CA\u2014Citing the frequent and unnecessary missives sent out at all hours of the day, sources confirmed Friday that the league representative from the company Bakersfield Sportz needed to cool it with all the emails. John Cena Purchases $4 Million 18th-Century Wrought Iron Cage At Auction NANTUCKET, MA\u2014Narrowly outbidding dozens of other competitors to take home the rare and precious antique, professional wrestler John Cena reportedly purchased an 18th-century wrought iron cage at auction Monday for $4 million. The Onion Looks Back At 'Jaws' The Onion's movie critic Peter K. Rosenthal looks back at the 1975 thriller 'Jaws' in this week's Film Standard Notable Celebrity Sports Fans Wrigley Field Home Plate Collapses Under Weight Of Numerous Cubs Celebrating Home Run Dale Earnhardt Jr. Submits Paperwork For Gas Reimbursement LONG POND, PA\u2014Hunching over the steering wheel of his idling No. 88 Chevrolet SS to closely inspect the odometer, NASCAR driver Dale Earnhardt Jr. was reportedly in the process of submitting paperwork Monday to reimburse his gas expenses for the month. Kirk Cousins Draws Up Cap-Friendly Contract Extension In Dirt Biggest Snubs From The MLB Hall Of Fame A-Rod Donates $25 Million To Be Displayed In Glass Case In Baseball Hall Of Fame COOPERSTOWN, NY\u2014Ensuring that a treasured piece of the game\u2019s history will be forever preserved for future generations of fans, representatives of the National Baseball Hall of Fame confirmed Friday that retired third baseman Alex Rodriguez recently donated $25 million of his earnings to be displayed inside a glass case in their museum. Area Man Installs Home Pull-Up Bar To Absentmindedly Tap While Passing Through Hallway CHARLOTTE, NC\u2014Saying it has already become a fixture in his daily routine, local 27-year-old Greg Weise installed a home pull-up bar to absentmindedly tap while passing through the hallway, sources confirmed Tuesday. Area Stingray Dreaming Of Making It To Tropicana Field Touch Tank TAMPA BAY, FL\u2014Calling the 10,000-gallon habitat hallowed ground, a local stingray told reporters Monday that he dreams of one day making it to the Tropicana Field touch tank. 5 Things To Watch For In NFL Training Camp 5 Things To Know About O.J. Simpson Nike Introduces New Line Of Sauce-Wicking Competitive Eating Apparel BEAVERTON, OR\u2014Promising to revolutionize the way athletes gorge, Nike introduced a new line of sauce-wicking apparel for competitive eating Thursday. Report: Bellagio Voted Best Casino For Standing Around Too Nervous To Approach A Poker Table LAS VEGAS\u2014Praising it as the perfect destination for the trepidatious gambler, a new poll released Wednesday in \u2018Casino Player\u2019 magazine voted the Bellagio the best casino for standing around too nervous to approach a poker table. Area Man Lifetime 0 For 6,000 On Jump Hooks \u2018NBA Hangtime\u2019 Announcer Remembers Calling Scottie Pippen\u2019s Classic Fire Double Dunk Game CHICAGO\u2014Telling reporters Monday that it was one of the most memorable two-on-two Tournament Mode games of his storied career, former \u2018NBA Hangtime\u2019 announcer Dick Walters described calling Scottie Pippen\u2019s classic 1997 fire double dunk game. New X Games Event Just Driving Monster Trucks Off Cliff X Games Dirt Biker Forced To Make Emergency Landing After Bird Gets Caught In Engine MINNEAPOLIS\u2014Avoiding a potentially even greater disaster with his split-second decision-making, X Games motocross rider Nate Adams was reportedly forced to make an emergency landing Thursday after a bird flew into his engine during a jump in the Moto X Freestyle Finals. Milestones In X Games History With the X Games kicking off in Minneapolis this Thursday, The Onion looks back at memorable moments in the event\u2019s 22-year history: ESPN Holds Daytime ESPYs HARTFORD, CT\u2014Recognizing the best in sports programming that occurs on weekdays from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., ESPN held the Daytime ESPY Awards at the Hartford XL Center Wednesday afternoon. Highlights From The First Half Of The MLB Season Onion Sports looks back at the finest moments from the first three months of the 2017 Major League Baseball season. Serena Williams Debating Between Grass Or Clay Birth Fans Behind Backstop Acting Like They Didn\u2019t Just Duck For Cover At Foul Tip Queen Elizabeth Kicks Off Wimbledon By Serving Ceremonial First Ace Of Tournament History Of The Tour De France Man Hoping Game Gets Out Of Hand So He Can Do Something Else DENVER\u2014Settling into his apartment\u2019s cramped living room to watch the midday game, local man Garrett Neubauer told reporters Wednesday that he hoped the televised baseball game between the Colorado Rockies and the San Francisco Giants would get out of hand soon so he could do something else. 13-Year-Old Just Quietly Trying To Get Through Rest Of Soccer Game After Getting Wind Knocked Out Of Him Kipers Go On Vacation Versatile Game Table Can Be Easily Converted To Play Small, Shitty Version Of Pool, Air Hockey, Foosball MINNEAPOLIS\u2014Citing the poor quality of both the design and craftsmanship, members of the Hunter family told reporters Friday that the home\u2019s versatile game table could be easily converted to play small, shitty versions of pool, air hockey, and foosball. End Of SectionMore News SPORTS NEWS IN BRIEF 2.12.09 February 12, 2009 Vol 45Issue 07Turns Out Craig Counsell Was Actually Best Baseball Player Of Steroid EraNEW YORK\u2014After the records of players who used performance-enhancing drugs are carefully removed, statistics provided by the Elias Sports Bureau indicate that lifetime .255 hitter Craig Counsell was the best player of the past 15 years. \"If you judge them on the basis of pure physical ability, you're left with Craig Counsell,\" said ESB representative Patrick Wondolowski, adding that Counsell's 35 career home runs narrowly beat out Quinton McCracken's 21 and pitcher Glendon Rusch's three. Upon hearing the news, broadcaster Bob Uecker lauded the Brewers utilityman as \"one of the best I ever saw, if we're talking about those who I can say without a doubt never took steroids. He came this close to stealing a base off of Ivan Rodriguez, and I swear I heard him foul tip a Roger Clemens fastball. The kid could flat-out steroid-free play. One time he was playing third base and he caught a Rafael Palmeiro line drive\u2014just caught it, right in his mitt.\" When asked about his Hall of Fame chances, Counsell dodged the question by asking if anyone had a few bucks so he could go buy a sandwich. Trending NowSlideshow74 Normal Photos And 2 Kinda Weird OnesNewsLocal Dipshit Planning On Fighting Trump Administration Through ArtNews76 Million Baby Boomers Abscond To Fiji After Draining Nation\u2019s Social Security, Medicare Accounts More from this section Area Stingray Dreaming Of Making It To Tropicana Field Touch Tank TAMPA BAY, FL\u2014Calling the 10,000-gallon habitat hallowed ground, a local stingray told reporters Monday that he dreams of one day making it to the Tropicana Field touch tank. 5 Things To Watch For In NFL Training Camp 5 Things To Know About O.J. Simpson Trending Now 74 Normal Photos And 2 Kinda Weird Ones Local Dipshit Planning On Fighting Trump Administration Through Art HUDSON, NY\u2014Saying he felt compelled to personally respond to the actions of a president he views as vicious and corrupt, local dipshit Scott Rudnick announced Thursday his intention to fight the Trump administration through his art. 76 Million Baby Boomers Abscond To Fiji After Draining Nation\u2019s Social Security, Medicare Accounts WOODLAWN, MD\u2014Arriving en masse to the Pacific island nation after fleeing under the cover of night, 76 million baby boomers reportedly escaped to Fiji on Friday after completely draining the nation\u2019s Social Security and Medicare accounts. Rec Sports League Organizer Needs To Cool It With The Emails BAKERSFIELD, CA\u2014Citing the frequent and unnecessary missives sent out at all hours of the day, sources confirmed Friday that the league representative from the company Bakersfield Sportz needed to cool it with all the emails. Sign up For The Onion's NewsletterGive your spam filter something to do.Daily HeadlinesWeekly UpdateCloseSign up For The Onion's NewsletterGive your spam filter something to do.Daily HeadlinesWeekly UpdateCloseThe Onion is not intended for readers under 18 years of age. \u00a9 Copyright 2017 Onion Inc. All rights reserved"}