{"url": "http://tech.newstatesman.com/guest-opinion/home-secretary-encryption", "text": "It's not for politicians to tell the public they don't need encryption - NS Tech\u00d7CloudCyber SecurityEnterpriseBig DataPublic SectorIOTEVENTSWhitepapers/WebinarsAbout UsAdvertise With UsContact UsNewsletterTerms and ConditionsRSS FeedsAbout UsAdvertise With UsContact UsTerms and ConditionsNewsletterRSS FeedsIt\u2019s not for politicians to tell... Rigorous insights for the technology professionalCloudCyber SecurityEnterpriseBig DataPublic SectorIOTEventsWhitepapers/Webinars Matt Cardy/Getty Imagesshow image Ed Johnson-WilliamsCampaigner at Open Rights GroupGuest opinion, PolicyIt\u2019s not for politicians to tell the public they don\u2019t need encryption 1st August 201700000Amber Rudd has been out doing the media rounds this morning talking about the issues end-to-end encryption poses to law enforcement. One comment in particular caught our eye:\u201cReal people often prefer ease of use and a multitude of features to perfect, unbreakable security. Who uses WhatsApp because it is end-to-end encrypted, rather than because it is an incredibly user-friendly and cheap way of staying in touch with friends and family?\u201dThis is a little like saying: \u201cWho uses a car because it has airbags and seatbelts, rather than because it\u2019s a convenient way to get around?\u201dThe Home Office strategy here may be to persuade internet companies to take action by telling them that ordinary people don\u2019t care about security. This would be dangerous and misleading.Clearly, real people (who are Rudd\u2019s not real people?) do value security in their communication, just as they do with safety in their cars. Security is not \u2013 or at least does not have to be \u2013 the opposite of usability.For many people, good security makes a service usable and useful. Some people want privacy from corporations, abusive partners or employers. Others may be worried about confidential information, sensitive medical conversations, or be working in countries with a record of human rights abuses.Whatever the reasons people want secure communications, it is not for the Home Secretary to tell the public that they don\u2019t have any real need for end-to-end encryption.While Rudd seems to be saying she does not want encryption to be \u201cremoved\u201d or bypassed, there are other things she might be looking for. It is possible that she wants the internet companies to assist the police with \u201ccomputer network exploitation\u201d \u2013 that\u2019s hacking people\u2019s devices.It could mean providing communications data about users which could include data such as: \u201cThis user uses this device, often these IP addresses, this version of their operating system with these known vulnerabilities, talks to these people at these times, is online now, is using this IP address, is likely at this address and has visited these websites this many times.\u201dAlternatively, Rudd might mean pushing out compromised app updates with end-to-end encryption disabled.However, it is likely to be police rather than security services asking for this help. While targeted hacking does provide an investigative option that avoids blanket communications surveillance, it would be risky for the police to have these powers. Training and oversight, after all, are not as thorough or exacting as in the security services.What is completely lacking is any serious attempt to tell the public what the Home Office wants internet companies to do to make people\u2019s end-to-end communications accessible.We should be told what risks the public would be exposed to if the companies were to agree to the Home Office\u2019s private requests. Have these risks been properly weighed up and scrutinised? What safeguards and oversight would there be?One risk is that users may start to distrust tech companies and the apps, operating systems and devices that they make. When security vulnerabilities are identified, firms push out updates to users. Keeping devices and apps up-to-date is one of the most important ways of keeping them secure. But if people are unsure whether they can trust pending updates, will they keep their devices up-to-date?It would be incredibly damaging to UK security if large numbers of people were dissuaded from doing so. A prime example is the WannaCry ransomware attack that paralysed parts of the NHS in May. It spread through old Windows computers that hadn\u2019t been updated, forcing doctors to cancel thousands of appointments.The government must spell out its plans in clear, precise legislation and subject that legislation to full parliamentary scrutiny, and it should bring security and usability experts into a public debate about these questions.Measures that deeply affect everybody\u2019s privacy, freedom of expression, and access to information must not be decided behind closed doors.00000Related News \u201cYes, you can blame Twitter for Trump\u201d Could access to technology be easier in your business? \u201cMozilla\u2019s \u2018top 5\u2019 good things in Europe\u2019s upcoming GDPR regulation\u201d Featured Content IT Leaders: Tech City UK CEO Gerard Grech on tech talent, sceptics and ambitionsTech City UK receives roughly \u00a34m-a-year from the government, in a bid t\u2026Exclusive: \u201cIt\u2019s time parliamentarians got to grips with AI,\u201d says chair of new Lords committee\u201cArtificial intelligence is one of the most important issues of th\u2026IT Leaders: Camden Council interim CIO Omid Shiraji wants area to be \u2018Centre of Data\u2019Camden Council is in the midst of a big change programme. It had signed \u2026IT Leaders: Co-Op CDO Mike Bracken on GDS, going digital and his next adventureThis is the first in\u00a0a new series of interviews with the UK\u2019s IT l\u2026City Hall hits back after Samsung boss claims London\u2019s \u2018no fun unless you\u2019re rich\u2019City Hall has defended the capital\u2019s reputation as a tech hub afte\u2026 Get Our Newsletter I have read your Privacy PolicyWhite Papers WHY YOU NEED DISASTER RECOVERYConfused about RTOs and RPOs? Fuzzy about failover and failback? Wondering about the advantages of continuous data protection over snapshots? Well, you are in the right place.The Disaster Recovery \u2026Security SOS WeekAre you wondering if ransomware really is the worst sort of malware ever? Or are you simply just struggling to get your head around GDPR? Perhaps you\u2019re worried about how quickly phishing is evolvi\u2026The power of digital menu boardsImprove communication. Increase Revenue. Reduce Costs. Digital signage is a professional and simple way to import information, menus, latest news and promotions to your customers; keeping them up t\u2026Protect Your Client\u2019s DataAs an MSP, you have been long aware that your clients need to increase and standardize their IT security defense, in order to decrease the risk of cyberattacks and possible regulatory fines. But wi\u2026Are You Ready for GDPR?The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) has been built to strengthen data protection for individuals living inside of the European Union, and also addressing the export of data outside of the\u2026 \u00a0 Pages About UsAdvertise With UsContact UsEVENT: REAL-TIME ANALYTICS: YOUR HIDDEN ASSETHomeNewsletter Sign upPrivacy PolicyRSS FeedsTerms and Conditions CategoriesCloudCyber SecurityEnterpriseBig DataPublic SectorIOTEventsWhitepapers/Webinars Recent Posts Monzo CEO Tom Blomfield issues frank apology over outagesMarcus Hutchins: What we know so far about the arrest of the hero hackerWannaCry masterminds collect the spoils of global ransomware attackAccenture creates 500 UK jobs in AI, robotics and cyber defenceDriverless buses rolled out in Tallinn in groundbreaking trialIT Leaders: Blenheim Chalcot Group CTO Mark Ridley on a rollercoaster year NS TECH | All Rights Reserved. Get the best of NS Tech right to your inbox\u00a0The latest technology stories brought to life \u00a0The latest industry leading white papersMake sure you read our Privacy PolicyThis Privacy Policy governs the manner in which New Statesman collects, uses, maintains and discloses information collected from users (each, a \"User\") of the http://www.newstatesman.com website (\"Site\"). This privacy policy applies to the Site and all products and services offered by New Statesman.Personal identification informationWe may collect personal identification information from Users in a variety of ways, including, but not limited to, when Users visit our site, register on the site, place an order, subscribe to the newsletter, respond to a survey, fill out a form, and in connection with other activities, services, features or resources we make available on our Site. Users may be asked for, as appropriate, name, email address, mailing address, phone number, credit card information. Users may, however, visit our Site anonymously. We will collect personal identification information from Users only if they voluntarily submit such information to us. Users can always refuse to supply personally identification information, except that it may prevent them from engaging in certain Site related activities.Non-personal identification informationWe may collect non-personal identification information about Users whenever they interact with our Site. Non-personal identification information may include the browser name, the type of computer and technical information about Users means of connection to our Site, such as the operating system and the Internet service provider\u2019s utilized and other similar information.Web browser cookiesOur Site may use \"cookies\" to enhance User experience. User's web browser places cookies on their hard drive for record-keeping purposes and sometimes to track information about them. User may choose to set their web browser to refuse cookies, or to alert you when cookies are being sent. If they do so, note that some parts of the Site may not function properly.ADVERTISINGinRead invented by TeadsHow we use collected informationNew Statesman collects and uses Users personal information for the following purposes:\u2022To personalize user experience We may use information individually or aggregated to understand how our Users use the services and resources provided on this Site, as well as our other Sites which include but not limited to:-tech.newstatesman.com-newstatesman.com-citymetric.com-elitetraveler.com-spearswms.com-worldofinewine.com-www.pressgazette.co.uk-progressivemediagroup.com\u2022To improve our Site We continually strive to improve our website offerings based on the information and feedback we receive from you.\u2022To improve customer service Your information helps us to more effectively respond to your customer service requests and support needs.\u2022To process transactions We may use the information Users provide about themselves when placing an order to provide service to that order, as well as provide relevant information about our other products including products from but not limited to:-tech.newstatesman.com-newstatesman.com-citymetric.com-elitetraveler.com-spearswms.com-worldofinewine.com-www.pressgazette.co.uk-progressivemediagroup.comWe do not automatically share this information with outside parties except to the extent necessary to provide the service or when explicitly given permission to by the User. The User can at any time opt-out of this by contacting us via one of the below Sites.-tech.newstatesman.com-newstatesman.com-citymetric.com-elitetraveler.com-spearswms.com-worldofinewine.com-www.pressgazette.co.uk-progressivemediagroup.com\u2022To administer a content, promotion, survey or other Site feature To send Users information they agreed to receive about topics we think will be of interest to them.\u2022To send periodic emailsThe email address Users provide will be used to send them information and updates pertaining to their orders as well as:I.Respond to their inquiries and requests or;II.Provide information about other relevant products from New Statesman or one of our other businesses including, but not limited to:-tech.newstatesman.com-newstatesman.com-citymetric.com-elitetraveler.com-spearswms.com-worldofinewine.com-www.pressgazette.co.uk-progressivemediagroup.comIf User decides to opt-in to our mailing list, they will receive emails that may include company news, updates, related product or service information, etc. If at any time the User would like to unsubscribe from receiving future emails, we include detailed unsubscribe instructions at the bottom of each email or User may contact us via one of the below Sites.-tech.newstatesman.com-newstatesman.com-citymetric.com-elitetraveler.com-spearswms.com-worldofinewine.com-www.pressgazette.co.uk-progressivemediagroup.comHow to switch off cookiesBy changing your browser settings you can choose to no longer accept cookies for individual websites. Links to the relevant pages relating to the most popular browsers are listed below: Google Chrome: 'Manage Cookies'Mozilla Firefox: 'Google settings'Microsoft Internet Explorer: 'How to manage cookies'Safari: 'Managing cookies'Opera: 'Security and Privacy'And here you will find instructions to help you change settings for mobile devices:AndroidBlackBerrySafariWindowsAlternatively, if you wish to switch off third party cookies (usually from advertisers) visit Your online choices. Google provides detailed information about its own advertising network, and how to edit preferences here. The cookies accompanying adverts may allow advertisers to monitor the effectiveness of the ads (eg by using statistical analysis cookies) and make the ads more relevant to you (eg if you use our sites from outside of the UK, you may get ads from your local country).More information can be found at the Network Advertising Initiative.How we protect your informationWe adopt appropriate data collection, storage and processing practices and security measures to protect against unauthorized access, alteration, disclosure or destruction of your personal information, username, password, transaction information and data stored on our Site.Sensitive and private data exchange between the Site and its Users happens over a SSL secured communication channel and is encrypted and protected with digital signatures. Our Site is also in compliance with PCI vulnerability standards in order to create as secure of an environment as possible for Users.Sharing your personal informationUnless we are given explicit permission to do so; we do not sell, trade, or rent Users personal identification information to others. We may without consent share generic aggregated demographic information not linked to any personal identification information regarding visitors and users with our business partners, trusted affiliates and advertisers for the purposes outlined above. We may use third party service providers to help us operate our business and the Site or administer activities on our behalf, such as sending out newsletters or surveys.Third party websitesUsers may find advertising or other content on our Site that link to the sites and services of our partners, suppliers, advertisers, sponsors, licensors and other third parties. We do not control the content or links that appear on these sites and are not responsible for the practices employed by websites linked to or from our Site. In addition, these sites or services, including their content and links, may be constantly changing. These sites and services may have their own privacy policies and customer service policies. Browsing and interaction on any other website, including websites which have a link to our Site, is subject to that website's own terms and policies.AdvertisingAds appearing on our site may be delivered to Users by advertising partners, who may set cookies. These cookies allow the ad server to recognize your computer each time they send you an online advertisement to compile non personal identification information about you or others who use your computer. This information allows ad networks to, among other things, deliver targeted advertisements that they believe will be of most interest to you. This privacy policy does not cover the use of cookies by any advertisers.Google AdsenseSome of the ads on the Site may be served by Google. Google's use of the DART cookie enables it to serve ads to Users based on their visit to our Site and other sites on the Internet. DART uses \"non personally identifiable information\" and does NOT track personal information about you, such as your name, email address, physical address, etc. You may opt out of the use of the DART cookie by visiting the Google ad and content network privacy policy at http://www.google.com/privacy_ads.htmlChanges to this privacy policyNew Statesman has the discretion to update this privacy policy at any time. When we do, we will post a notification on the main page of our Site. We encourage Users to frequently check this page for any changes to stay informed about how we are helping to protect the personal information we collect. You acknowledge and agree that it is your responsibility to review this privacy policy periodically and become aware of modifications.Your acceptance of these termsBy using this Site, you signify your acceptance of this policy. If you do not agree to this policy, please do not use our Site. Your continued use of the Site following the posting of changes to this policy will be deemed your acceptance of those changes.Contacting usIf you have any questions about this Privacy Policy, the practices of this site, or your dealings with this site, please contact us at:New Statesmanhttp://www.newstatesman.comNew Statesman7th FloorJohn Carpenter House7 Carmelite StreetBlackfriarsEC4Y 0ANUnited KingdomTel: +44 (0)20 7936 6400info@newstatesman.co.uk I have read your privacy policy CLOSE"}