{"url": "https://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/right-turn/wp/2017/08/03/why-the-leaked-presidential-transcripts-are-so-frightening/", "text": " Why the leaked presidential transcripts are so frightening - The Washington Post 2 Desktop notifications are on \u00a0 | Turn off Get breaking news alerts from The Washington Post Turn on desktop notifications? Yes Not now Democracy Dies in Darkness Sections Subscribe Username Sign In Account Profile Newsletters & Alerts Gift Subscriptions Contact Us Help Desk Subscribe Account Profile Newsletters & Alerts Gift Subscriptions Contact Us Help Desk Accessibility for screenreader Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Google Plus Share via Email Share on LinkedIn Share on Pinterest Share on Tumblr Resize Text Print Article Comments1.6K The inside track on Washington politics. Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and we\u2019ll e-mail you free updates as they\u2019re published. You\u2019ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published. You\u2019re all set! Sign up *Invalid email address Got it Got it Right Turn Opinion Opinion Interpretation of the news based on evidence, including data, as well as anticipating how events might unfold based on past events Why the leaked presidential transcripts are so frightening The inside track on Washington politics. Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and we\u2019ll e-mail you free updates as they\u2019re published. You\u2019ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published. You\u2019re all set! Sign up *Invalid email address Got it Got it By Jennifer Rubin By Jennifer Rubin August 3 Follow @JRubinBlogger The Post has obtained transcripts of President Trump's January phone conversations with Mexican President Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto and Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull. (The Washington Post) The Post\u2019s latest bombshell\u00a0has dropped: The Post has obtained transcripts of Trump\u2019s talks with Pe\u00f1a Nieto and Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull. Produced by White House staff, the documents provide an unfiltered glimpse of Trump\u2019s approach to the diplomatic aspect of his job, subjecting even a close neighbor and long-standing ally to streams of threats and invective as if\u00a0aimed at U.S. adversaries. Among the most disturbing exchanges were a series of petulant remarks concerning \u2014 what else? \u2014 refugees: The Jan. 28 call with Turnbull became particularly acrimonious. \u201cI have had it,\u201d Trump erupted after the two argued about an agreement on refugees. \u201cI have been making these calls all day, and this is the\u00a0most unpleasant call all day.\u201d Before ending the call, Trump noted that at least one of his conversations that day had gone far more smoothly. \u201cPutin was a pleasant call,\u201d Trump said, referring to Russian President Vladi\u00admir Putin. \u201cThis is ridiculous.\u201d \u2026 \u201cThis is going to kill me,\u201d he said to Turnbull. \u201cI am the world\u2019s greatest person that does not want to let people into the country. And now I am agreeing to take 2,000 people.\u201d The Washington Post released the full transcripts of President Trump's calls with Mexican President Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto and Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull from January. Here's what the White House said about the conversations at the time. (Elyse Samuels/The Washington Post) With the president of Mexico, Trump again made it all about him: \u201cOn the wall, you and I both have a political problem,\u201d Trump said. \u201cMy people stand up and say, \u2018Mexico will pay for the wall,\u2019 and your people probably say something in a similar but slightly different language.\u201d Trump seemed to acknowledge that his threats to make Mexico pay had left him cornered politically. \u201cI have to have Mexico pay for the wall\u00a0\u2014 I have to,\u201d he said. \u201cI have been talking about it for a two-year period.\u201d \u2026 Pe\u00f1a Nieto resisted, saying that Trump\u2019s repeated threats had placed \u201ca very big mark on our back, Mr. President.\u201d He warned that \u201cmy position has been and will continue to be very firm, saying that Mexico cannot pay for the wall.\u201d Trump objected: \u201cBut\u00a0you cannot say that to the press. The press is going to go with that, and\u00a0I cannot live with that.\u201d There are several deeply troubling aspects of all this. First, it is shocking to see presidential conversations released in this way. Some in the executive branch, as Anthony Scaramucci aptly put it, are intent on protecting the country from Trump. This is a good thing, by the way. White House Chief of Staff John F. Kelly has obviously failed to plug the flood leaks, and one wonders whether a leak this egregious is meant to signal that the White House will remain dysfunctional. (Trump should understand that anything and everything in his administration that could be compromising will come out sooner or later.)\u00a0Although leaking transcripts of presidential conversations is potentially very harmful in the long run, I would argue in this case that it is justified. And that brings us to the next point: Trump is frighteningly obsessed with himself and his image to such an extent that he cannot fulfill the role of commander in chief. He cannot frame logical arguments based on public policy, and therefore comes across as, well, a fool to foreign leaders. His desire to maintain his own image suggests he\u2019d be more than willing\u00a0to make the country\u2019s interests subordinate to his own need for personal affirmations. Dealing with foreign allies is bad enough, but one can only imagine what he has said to adversaries. This, in turn, raises a third critical issue: Trump\u2019s narcissism leaves him open to flattery and threats (to reveal embarrassing material, for example). That\u2019s the worry in the Russia investigation \u2014 namely, that Vladimir Putin has \u201csomething\u201d on Trump, which compels Trump to act in ways inimical to U.S. interests. Trump\u2019s interests are paramount, so a cagey adversary can easily manipulate him. President Trump speaks on the phone with Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull in the Oval Office of the White House in Washington. (Alex Brandon/Associated Press) As you can see, there is no magical cure for this, no Svengali who can be brought in to stop Trump from being Trump. One cannot be impeached and removed for being an embarrassment to the United States or an egomaniac temperamentally unfit for the job (that was the argument for not electing him). Unless he really goes off the deep end, invoking the 25th Amendment is not a realistic option. That leaves members of Congress and his administration with a few options. They can try to box him off from dangerous actions (as Congress now contemplates doing in a statute to protect special counsel Robert S. Mueller III from being fired) and ignore tweets, although that is an incomplete solution. Alternatively, Congress can rely on the special counsel\u2019s findings and its own investigation, finding justification in the Russia scandal to impeach and remove him. Finally, Congress can force Trump to make a choice, or looked upon differently, give him an out to leave the presidency. Enforce the Constitution\u2019s emoluments clause (he can receive no foreign monies); affix anti-nepotism rules in statute (depriving him of his relatives\u2019 hand-holding, at least in an official capacity); through statute require complete divestiture of senior officials\u2019 business holdings; or pass a law forcing him and all future presidents to disclose their tax returns. Because we know Trump puts himself, his ego and his interests ahead of everything and will do almost anything to avoid looking bad, he might just decide to take his ball and go home. opinions right-turn Orlando Shooting Updates News and analysis on the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. post_newsletter348 follow-orlando true after3th false Please provide a valid email address. Sign up You\u2019re all set! See all newsletters true The story must be told. Your subscription supports journalism that matters. Try 1 month for 99\u00a2 1.6K Comments \u00a0Share on FacebookShare \u00a0 Share on TwitterTweet Share via Email Jennifer Rubin writes the Right Turn blog for The Post, offering reported opinion from a conservative perspective. Follow @JRubinBlogger 1550 Show Comments Discussion Policy Comments SuperFan Badge SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams. More about badges | Request a badge Culture Connoisseur Badge Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment. More about badges | Request a badge Fact Checker Badge Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker. More about badges | Request a badge Washingtologist Badge Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area. More about badges | Request a badge Post Writer Badge This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer. Post Forum Badge Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs. More about badges | Request a badge Weather Watcher Badge Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts. More about badges | Request a badge World Watcher Badge World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs. More about badges | Request a badge Post Contributor Badge This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren\u2019t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story. More about badges | Request a badge Post Recommended Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post. You must be logged in to report a comment. Sign in here You must be logged in to recommend a comment. Sign in here Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.All comments are posted in the All Comments tab. More about badgesGet a badge To pause and restart automatic updates, click \"Live\" or \"Paused\". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in. Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers. Spam Offensive Disagree Off-Topic Among the criteria for featured comments: likes by users, replies by users, previous history of valuable commenting, and selection by moderators. Facebook Twitter Reddit StumbleUpon Digg Most Read 1 Opinion The GOP has become the party of the grotesque 2 Opinion Black people aren\u2019t keeping white Americans out of college. Rich people are. 3 Opinion Trump\u2019s continued attacks on Clinton tell us why the Democrats lost 4 Opinion Ivanka and Jared, move back to New York 5 Perspective This Trump real estate deal looks awfully like criminal tax fraud The story must be told. Subscribe to The Washington Post. Subscribe Our Online Games Play right from this page Mahjongg Dimensions Strategy game Mahjongg Candy Strategy game Word Wipe Word game opinions right-turn Success! Check your inbox for details. Please enter a valid email address You might also like: Sign Up No Thanks See all newsletters washingtonpost.com \u00a9 1996-2017 The Washington Post \u00a0 Help and Contact Us Terms of Service Privacy Policy Print Products Terms of Sale Digital Products Terms of Sale Submissions and Discussion Policy RSS Terms of Service Ad Choices Close video player Now Playing Read content from allstate Content from Allstate This content is paid for by an advertiser and published by WP BrandStudio. The Washington Post newsroom was not involved in the creation of this content. Learn more about WP BrandStudio. We went to the source. Here\u2019s what matters to millennials. A state-by-state look at where Generation Y stands on the big issues. "}