{"url": "https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/monkey-cage/wp/2017/08/03/resentful-white-people-propelled-trump-to-the-white-house-and-he-is-rewarding-their-loyalty/?hpid=hp_regional-hp-cards_rhp-card-politics%3Ahomepage%2Fcard", "text": " Resentful white people propelled Trump to the White House \u2014 and he is rewarding their loyalty - The Washington Post 2 Desktop notifications are on \u00a0 | Turn off Get breaking news alerts from The Washington Post Turn on desktop notifications? Yes Not now Democracy Dies in Darkness Sections Subscribe Username Sign In Account Profile Newsletters & Alerts Gift Subscriptions Contact Us Help Desk Subscribe Account Profile Newsletters & Alerts Gift Subscriptions Contact Us Help Desk Accessibility for screenreader Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Google Plus Share via Email Share on LinkedIn Share on Pinterest Share on Tumblr Resize Text Print Article Comments40+ The inside track on Washington politics. Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and we\u2019ll e-mail you free updates as they\u2019re published. You\u2019ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published. You\u2019re all set! Sign up *Invalid email address Got it Got it Monkey Cage Analysis Analysis Interpretation of the news based on evidence, including data, as well as anticipating how events might unfold based on past events Resentful white people propelled Trump to the White House \u2014 and he is rewarding their loyalty The inside track on Washington politics. Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and we\u2019ll e-mail you free updates as they\u2019re published. You\u2019ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published. You\u2019re all set! Sign up *Invalid email address Got it Got it By John Sides By John Sides August 3 President Trump invites a supporter onstage during a rally at Orlando Melbourne International Airport in Florida in February. (Reuters) The Trump administration is preparing to have the Justice Department\u2019s civil rights division investigate and possibly sue universities over affirmative action programs that the administration believes discriminate against white people. This initiative fits a pattern. Since his inauguration, Trump has been hard to pin down on many issues \u2014 for example, he demanded the repeal of Obamacare and then called the House Republican health-care bill \u201cmean\u201d \u2014 but he has remained steadfast on one thing: his particular brand of identity politics. And now, with this new initiative, he is once again addressing, and perhaps stoking, the grievances of the white voters who are integral to his base of support. A sense of victimhood among whites was ascendant even before Trump\u2019s candidacy. As sociologist Arlie Hochschild documented in her extensive conversations with rural whites in Louisiana, there was a pervasive sense that the beneficiaries of affirmative action, immigrants and refugees were \u201cstealing their place in line,\u201d cutting ahead \u201cat the expense of white men and their wives.\u201d In Hochschild\u2019s phrase, these people felt like \u201cstrangers in their own land.\u201d This sentiment showed up in polls as well. In 2011-2012, 38 percent of Republicans thought that there was at least a moderate amount of discrimination against whites, according to American National Election Study surveys. That figure jumped to 47 percent in the ANES study in January 2016. Similarly, an October 2015 Public Religion Research Institute poll found that nearly two-thirds of Republicans thought that \u201cdiscrimination against whites has become as big of a problem as discrimination against blacks and other minorities.\u201d The Trump administration is targeting affirmative action policies at universities under a new initiative in the Justice Department. (Claritza Jimenez/The Washington Post) These views were crucial to Trump\u2019s rise. In March 2016, the political scientist Michael Tesler and I showed the importance of \u201cwhite identity\u201d during the Republican primary. Trump did particularly well among whites who strongly identified as white, who thought whites suffered from discrimination, who thought whites were losing out on jobs to minorities, and who thought it was important for whites to work together to change laws that were unfair to whites. Indeed, in further analysis that we\u2019ve done, a strong sense of white identity has emerged as one of the most potent \u2014 if not the most potent \u2014 predictors of support for Trump in the primary. Support for Trump depended far less on personal economic anxiety \u2014 \u201cI\u2019m afraid of losing my job\u201d \u2014 than on a distinctly racialized anxiety: \u201cI think minorities are taking jobs from people like me.\u201d This graph below illustrates this, and, to my mind, it is crucial to understanding Trump\u2019s rise. It shows that Trump did only a little bit better among Republicans concerned about losing their job compared to those with no such concern, as measured in January 2016 YouGov polls. But he did much better among those who thought whites were losing jobs to minorities. Other analyses from early 2016 reached a similar conclusion. For example, my Post colleagues Scott Clement and Max Ehrenfreund also found that concerns about whites \u201closing out\u201d were common among Trump supporters \u2014 and these concerns, much more than personal financial struggles, were associated with support for Trump. This continued in the general election, too. For example, the large majority of Hillary Clinton voters said that blacks, Latinos and Muslims suffered a lot of discrimination but only 10 percent said that of whites. In contrast, 45 percent of Trump voters said that whites suffered a lot of discrimination, but only about 20 percent said that of Latinos or blacks. Moreover, the perception that whites are discriminated against was more strongly related to how people voted in 2016 than in how they voted in 2012. Of course, it remains to be seen what this Trump administration initiative amounts to, and what effect it might have. But on a purely symbolic level, it clearly signals to core Trump supporters that their grievances are being taken seriously. They may feel like strangers in their own land, but they are not strangers to this president. politics monkey-cage Dallas shooting updates News and analysis on the deadliest day for police since 9/11. post_newsletter353 follow-dallas false endOfArticle false Please provide a valid email address. Sign up You\u2019re all set! See all newsletters false The story must be told. Your subscription supports journalism that matters. Try 1 month for 99\u00a2 politics monkey-cage Orlando Shooting Updates News and analysis on the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. post_newsletter348 follow-orlando true endOfArticle false Please provide a valid email address. Sign up You\u2019re all set! See all newsletters true The story must be told. Your subscription supports journalism that matters. Try 1 month for 99\u00a2 40+ Comments \u00a0Share on FacebookShare \u00a0 Share on TwitterTweet Share via Email John Sides is an Associate Professor of Political Science at George Washington University. He specializes in public opinion, voting, and American elections. 40 Show Comments Discussion Policy Comments SuperFan Badge SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams. More about badges | Request a badge Culture Connoisseur Badge Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment. More about badges | Request a badge Fact Checker Badge Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker. More about badges | Request a badge Washingtologist Badge Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area. More about badges | Request a badge Post Writer Badge This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer. Post Forum Badge Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs. More about badges | Request a badge Weather Watcher Badge Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts. More about badges | Request a badge World Watcher Badge World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs. More about badges | Request a badge Post Contributor Badge This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren\u2019t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story. More about badges | Request a badge Post Recommended Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post. You must be logged in to report a comment. Sign in here You must be logged in to recommend a comment. Sign in here Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.All comments are posted in the All Comments tab. More about badgesGet a badge To pause and restart automatic updates, click \"Live\" or \"Paused\". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in. Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers. Spam Offensive Disagree Off-Topic Among the criteria for featured comments: likes by users, replies by users, previous history of valuable commenting, and selection by moderators. Facebook Twitter Reddit StumbleUpon Digg Most Read 1 Trump still has the bully pulpit, but is facing more challenges to his authority 2 Analysis Trump\u2019s itchy Twitter finger just triggered speculation about an indictment 3 Analysis Republicans aren\u2019t tired of winning under Trump. In fact, more think they\u2019re losing. 4 Analysis Mr. President, here\u2019s a more accurate map for you to tweet 5 Analysis Jeff Sessions might subpoena journalists to reveal leakers. Mike Pence once fought against that. The story must be told. Subscribe to The Washington Post. Subscribe Inside 'Trump Revealed' Read stories based on reporting for \u201cTrump Revealed,\u201d a broad, comprehensive biography of the life of the president. Reporting archive: Trump\u2019s financial records, depositions and interview transcripts politics monkey-cage Success! Check your inbox for details. Please enter a valid email address You might also like: Sign Up No Thanks See all newsletters washingtonpost.com \u00a9 1996-2017 The Washington Post \u00a0 Help and Contact Us Terms of Service Privacy Policy Print Products Terms of Sale Digital Products Terms of Sale Submissions and Discussion Policy RSS Terms of Service Ad Choices Close video player Now Playing "}