{"url": "https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-watch/wp/2017/08/02/ala-legislators-wont-compensate-innocent-man-for-30-years-on-death-row-instead-they-want-to-speed-up-executions", "text": " Ala. legislators won\u2019t compensate innocent man for 30 years on death row. Instead, they want to speed up executions. - The Washington Post 2 Desktop notifications are on \u00a0 | Turn off Get breaking news alerts from The Washington Post Turn on desktop notifications? Yes Not now Democracy Dies in Darkness Sections Subscribe Username Sign In Account Profile Newsletters & Alerts Gift Subscriptions Contact Us Help Desk Subscribe Account Profile Newsletters & Alerts Gift Subscriptions Contact Us Help Desk Accessibility for screenreader Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Google Plus Share via Email Share on LinkedIn Share on Pinterest Share on Tumblr Resize Text Print Article Comments10+ The inside track on Washington politics. Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and we\u2019ll e-mail you free updates as they\u2019re published. You\u2019ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published. You\u2019re all set! Sign up *Invalid email address Got it Got it The Watch Opinion Opinion Interpretation of the news based on evidence, including data, as well as anticipating how events might unfold based on past events Ala. legislators won\u2019t compensate innocent man for 30 years on death row. Instead, they want to speed up executions. The inside track on Washington politics. Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and we\u2019ll e-mail you free updates as they\u2019re published. You\u2019ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published. You\u2019re all set! Sign up *Invalid email address Got it Got it By Radley Balko By Radley Balko August 2 Follow @radleybalko Anthony Ray Hinton talks with the media outside of the Jefferson County Jail upon his release after serving nearly 30 years on death row, in Birmingham, Ala., in April 2015. (BOB FARLEY/European Pressphoto Agency) Anthony Hinton served nearly 30 years on Alabama\u2019s death row until he was finally exonerated in 2015. The Washington Post summarized his case\u00a0at the time of his release: Hinton was convicted of two separate killings of Birmingham restaurant workers \u2014 the Feb. 25, 1985, slaying of John Davidson, and the July 2, 1985, killing\u00a0of Thomas Vason \u2014 even though there were no eyewitnesses linking Hinton to the crimes, no fingerprints linking him to the scene, and no other physical evidence except for the questionable link between a set of bullets and a gun found in Hinton\u2019s home. For years, Hinton\u2019s lawyers have questioned whether the bullets could be conclusively linked to the weapon. The gun belonged to Hinton\u2019s mother, with whom he shared a home. Subsequent tests of the only physical evidence in the case raised serious doubts about whether the weapon in Hinton\u2019s home had fired those bullets \u2014 and it even called into question whether the bullets were all fired from the same gun. The ballistic evidence combined with eyewitness testimony from someone who was present at a similar crime that Hinton was never charged with comprised the entirety of the state\u2019s case against him. Hinton\u2019s attorneys discovered the problems with the ballistic evidence in 1999. Yet state prosecutors took another 16 years to conduct their own tests, during which Hinton remained on death row. Hinton was finally released two years ago. Yet despite spending more than half his life in prison, the 60-year-old Hinton has still yet to be compensated. The Alabama legislature just can\u2019t seem to get around to it. From the Equal Justice Initiative: Alabama law provides that compensation may be awarded to a wrongfully incarcerated person if the Committee on Compensation for Wrongful Incarceration finds that he\u00a0meets the eligibility criteria, but applying for compensation is often a meaningless exercise because the statute requires a\u00a0legislative enactment to\u00a0appropriate the necessary funds. Mr. Hinton\u2019s application was approved by the committee, and this session,\u00a0State Senator Paul Bussman sponsored a\u00a0bill\u00a0to appropriate the funds to compensate\u00a0Mr. Hinton. The bill never even made it out of committee. This is really unconscionable. Meanwhile, since Hinton\u2019s release the Alabama legislature has passed a different bill related to capital punishment \u2014 the Orwellian-named \u201cFair Justice Act,\u201d which aims to limit the appeals of death row inmates and speed up executions. As Hinton himself wrote in an op-ed, had the Fair Justice Act been in place at the time of his conviction, he\u2019d almost certainly be dead. It\u2019s nice to know where the Alabama legislature\u2019s priorities lie, here. Instead of compensating a wrongly convicted man, and perhaps examining how his conviction could have happened, they\u2019ve passed a law making it less likely that they\u2019ll be asked to\u00a0compensate the wrongly convicted in the future. Not because death row will be free of innocent people \u2014 the bill does nothing to ensure better capital defense, or curb prosecutorial misconduct, or address other deficiencies in the system. Instead, the new law merely makes it more\u00a0likely that the wrongly convicted will be dead long before their innocence can be discovered. opinions the-watch Orlando Shooting Updates News and analysis on the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. post_newsletter348 follow-orlando true after3th false Please provide a valid email address. Sign up You\u2019re all set! See all newsletters true The story must be told. Your subscription supports journalism that matters. Try 1 month for 99\u00a2 10+ Comments \u00a0Share on FacebookShare \u00a0 Share on TwitterTweet Share via Email Radley Balko blogs about criminal justice, the drug war and civil liberties for The Washington Post. He is the author of the book \"Rise of the Warrior Cop: The Militarization of America's Police Forces.\" Follow @radleybalko 17 Show Comments Discussion Policy Comments SuperFan Badge SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams. More about badges | Request a badge Culture Connoisseur Badge Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment. More about badges | Request a badge Fact Checker Badge Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker. More about badges | Request a badge Washingtologist Badge Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area. More about badges | Request a badge Post Writer Badge This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer. Post Forum Badge Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs. More about badges | Request a badge Weather Watcher Badge Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts. More about badges | Request a badge World Watcher Badge World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs. More about badges | Request a badge Post Contributor Badge This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren\u2019t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story. More about badges | Request a badge Post Recommended Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post. You must be logged in to report a comment. Sign in here You must be logged in to recommend a comment. Sign in here Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.All comments are posted in the All Comments tab. More about badgesGet a badge To pause and restart automatic updates, click \"Live\" or \"Paused\". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in. Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers. Spam Offensive Disagree Off-Topic Among the criteria for featured comments: likes by users, replies by users, previous history of valuable commenting, and selection by moderators. Facebook Twitter Reddit StumbleUpon Digg Most Read 1 Opinion The GOP has become the party of the grotesque 2 Opinion Black people aren\u2019t keeping white Americans out of college. Rich people are. 3 Opinion Trump\u2019s continued attacks on Clinton tell us why the Democrats lost 4 Opinion Ivanka and Jared, move back to New York 5 Trump still has the bully pulpit, but is facing more challenges to his authority The story must be told. Subscribe to The Washington Post. Subscribe Our Online Games Play right from this page Mahjongg Dimensions Strategy game Mahjongg Candy Strategy game Word Wipe Word game opinions the-watch Success! Check your inbox for details. Please enter a valid email address You might also like: Sign Up No Thanks See all newsletters washingtonpost.com \u00a9 1996-2017 The Washington Post \u00a0 Help and Contact Us Terms of Service Privacy Policy Print Products Terms of Sale Digital Products Terms of Sale Submissions and Discussion Policy RSS Terms of Service Ad Choices Close video player Now Playing Read content from allstate Content from Allstate This content is paid for by an advertiser and published by WP BrandStudio. The Washington Post newsroom was not involved in the creation of this content. Learn more about WP BrandStudio. We went to the source. Here\u2019s what matters to millennials. A state-by-state look at where Generation Y stands on the big issues. "}