{"url": "http://talkingpointsmemo.com/livewire/coons-tillis-legislation-robert-mueller", "text": "AP: Senators To Introduce Bill To Protect Robert Mueller \u2013 Talking Points Memo Send Comments & News Tips Account Settings Bookmarks Sign Out Join Prime Bookmarks New to You Longform The Hive Sections All News Livewire Editors' Blog TPM DC TPM Cafe Muckraker World News Longform 5 Points This Chart Idealab Podcasts Poll Tracker StorePublished Since 2000 TPM Livewire AP: Senators To Introduce Bill To Protect Robert Mueller SHARE TWEET PIN-IT Andrew Harnik/AP By Matt Shuham Published August 3, 2017 9:49 am Sens. Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Chris Coons (D-DE) plan to introduce legislation meant to shield Department of Justice special counsels from political influence \u2014 with an eye toward protecting Robert Mueller, the special counsel at the head of the department\u2019s Russian election meddling investigation and a target of the Trump administration.The Associated Press reported Wednesday that Tillis and Coons\u2019 legislation would allow any Justice Department special counsel to challenge\u00a0his or her firing in court, and to have it reviewed by a three-judge panel. The bill would apply retroactively to May 17, 2017, AP reported \u2014 the day Mueller was assigned as a special counsel by Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein.Mueller has the support of a broad, bipartisan swath of Congress, who largely saw his appointment as an opportunity to turn the legislature\u2019s attention back to policy priorities. President Donald Trump, meanwhile, has reportedly raged at Mueller\u2019s investigation. Political allies like former House Speaker Newt Gingrich, and Trump himself, have attacked Mueller for his working friendship with ousted FBI Director James Comey, and for the investigators working under him who have donated to the campaigns of Hillary Clinton and other Democrats.In an interview with the New York Times in July, Trump agreed that Mueller would be crossing a line if he, in words of a Times reporter, \u201cwas looking at your finances and your family finances, unrelated to Russia.\u201dTillis and Coons both characterized the legislation as an important safeguard against executive overreach.\u201cIt is critical that special counsels have the independence and resources they need to lead investigations,\u201d Tillis told AP. \u201cA back-end judicial review process to prevent unmerited removals of special counsels not only helps to ensure their investigatory independence, but also reaffirms our nation\u2019s system of check and balances.\u201dCoons added: \u201cEnsuring that the special counsel cannot be removed improperly is critical to the integrity of his investigation.\u201dThe bill is similar to one championed by Sens. Lindsay Graham (R-SC) and Cory Booker (D-NJ) that would require judicial approval before a special counsel is fired.This post has been updated. ABOUT THE AUTHOR Matt Shuham Follow @mattshuham Matt Shuham is a news writer for TPM. He was previously assistant editor of The National Memo and managing editor of the Harvard Political Review. He is available by email at mshuham@talkingpointsmemo.com and on Twitter @mattshuham. LIKE US ON FACEBOOK PIN-IT TWEET SHARE ADVERTISEMENT LiveWire Report: Fox News Host Sent Unsolicited Lewd Text Messages To Colleagues about 5 hours ago Longtime Fox News host Eric Bolling reportedly sent unsolicited text messages with photos of... Russia\u2019s Kislyak: Talks With Flynn \u2018Absolutely Transparent\u2019 about 6 hours ago Former Russian ambassador to the U.S., Sergei Kislyak, said his conversations with former White... In Latest Video Volley, NRA Targets The New York Times: 'We're Coming For You' about 22 hours ago The National Rifle Association continued a\u00a0streak of publishing decidedly aggressive video content Thursday. This... CNN: FBI Traced Suspected Russian 'Fake News' Push On Election Day about 23 hours ago FBI agents monitored social media on Election Day for what they believed were Russian... WH Staffers Pose With Dinesh D'Souza And His New Book On The 'Fascist' Left about 1 days ago Conservative author Dinesh D'Souza on Friday posted pictures of top White House staffers Steve... ADVERTISEMENT Most Popular ADVERTISEMENT Talking Points Memo ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT About Terms of Use Careers Site Status Advertise ContactEditor & Publisher Josh MarshallManaging Editor David KurtzSenior Editor Catherine ThompsonNews Editor David TaintorInvestigations Desk Sam Thielman Tierney SneedSenior Political Correspondent Cameron JosephReporters Allegra Kirkland Alice OllsteinNewswriters Esme Cribb Nichole Lafond Caitlin Mac Neal Matt ShuhamEditor-at-Large John B. JudisFront Page Editor Summer ConcepcionSocial Media Editor Cristina CabreraGeneral Manager & General Counsel Millet IsraeliExecutive Publisher Joe RagazzoDirector of Product & Creative Development Derick DirmaierDirector of Technology Matthew WozniakUX/UI Designer Christine FrapechPublishing Fellow Jackie Wilhelm @ 2017 TPM Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. "}