{"url": "http://www.salon.com/2017/08/03/trump-wants-to-build-a-police-state-and-that-could-be-more-destructive-to-democracy-than-the-russia-scandal/", "text": " Trump wants to build a police state \u2014 and that could be more destructive to democracy than the Russia scandal - Salon.com Salon Home Hacker conference demonstrates how easily voting machines can be compromisedMatthew Sheffield Ivanka and Jared aren\u2019t as powerful as White House leakers make it seemMatthew Rozsa \u201cThings that have lasted longer than Mooch\u201d: Twitter laughs at firing of Anthony ScaramucciSophia Tesfaye Video video A summer survival guide for the Trump eraRobert Reich WATCH: \u201cJust saying that facts matter . . . seems radical today\u201dAmanda Marcotte WATCH: \u201cFun Mom Dinner\u201d was made by women, and it was \u201cglorious\u201d on setAlli Joseph News news Screw Los Angeles: Minneapolis should host the 2028 Summer OlympicsTaylor Link Stephen Miller is being considered for White House communications director: ReportCharlie May Three Trump speeches and the death of a nationMichael Winship Politics politics Heather Digby Parton Chauncey DeVega Carrie Sheffield Can Trump answer these 5 simple questions?Kali Holloway Stephen Miller is being considered for White House communications director: ReportCharlie May \u201cWe waked up stark mad Abolitionists\u201dRobert K. Sutton Entertainment entertainment Books Movies Music Screw Los Angeles: Minneapolis should host the 2028 Summer OlympicsTaylor Link \u201cSharknado 5: Global Swarming\u201d makes us question why this keeps happening to usMelanie McFarland The 10 best movies with 0% on Rotten TomatoesMatthew Rozsa Life life Life Stories Love & Sex Parenting \u201cWe waked up stark mad Abolitionists\u201dRobert K. Sutton A summer survival guide for the Trump eraRobert Reich Inside the Colorado Mansion where the kittens of BDSM run wildMichael Stahl Innovation innovation Sustainability Technology Business Free your brain: How Silicon Valley denies us the freedom to pay attentionDavid Priest Why Facebook\u2019s racism problem might never be solvedKeith A. Spencer Could co-ops replace ridesharing companies like Uber?Matthew Rozsa Podcasts (beta) podcasts (beta) LISTEN: Why is burning the American flag considered \u201cspeech\u201d?Joe Dunman LISTEN: \u201cWe can\u2019t have a country where it\u2019s OK for police to execute in broad daylight\u201dLauren Schiller LISTEN: Hip-hop\u2019s dominance proves the resilience of black cultureSalon Mix Log out Sign in Thursday, Aug 3, 2017 8:08 AM EDT Trump wants to build a police state \u2014 and that could be more destructive to democracy than the Russia scandal Three years after Ferguson, the administration seeks to militarize policing even more. It's a dangerous path Heather Digby Parton Skip to Comments Topics: border patrol, Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security, Donald Trump, ICE, Immigration, Immigration Agents, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Law enforcement, militarized police, partner video, Police, Trump Administration, Politics News, News Three years ago next week, Officer Darren Wilson shot and killed a young man named Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri. That shooting sparked nationwide unrest and a national discussion of \u201cuse of force\u201d doctrine and the militarization of the police.\u00a0Those had been subjects of concern\u00a0among civil libertarians for some time as more and more departments around the country developed policing models based upon the rules of engagement in war zones.War in Afghanistan and Iraq for more than 15 years has produced a surplus of military gear that ends up being sold to local law enforcement agencies, along with a culture of \u201cus against them\u201d that\u2019s created a sense of siege in too many communities of color. Although this has been a gradual change, the sight of all that combat-style weaponry rolling down the streets of the middle American suburb of Ferguson came as a shock to a lot of people.The Black Lives Matter movement, which grew out of the Trayvon Williams shooting in 2013, gained momentum after Ferguson, as did various organizations working on policing reform. Awareness seemed to be growing that the drug war had become a real war. As the ACLU report, \u201cThe War Comes Home\u201d\u00a0stated:All across the country, heavily armed SWAT teams are raiding people\u2019s homes in the middle of the night, often just to search for drugs. It should enrage us that people have needlessly died during these raids, that pets have been shot, and that homes have been ravaged. Our neighborhoods are not warzones, and police officers should not be treating us like wartime enemies. Any yet, every year, billions of dollars\u2019 worth of military equipment flows from the federal government to state and local police departments. Departments use these wartime weapons in everyday policing, especially to fight the wasteful and failed drug war, which has unfairly targeted people of color.For a brief moment it felt as if there might be the political will to put a stop to some of these excesses. But of course for every action there\u2019s a reaction, and a backlash against Black Lives Matter and police reform grew as well. When Donald Trump came along promising to be the \u201claw and order\u201d president and won the election, whatever progress was being made stalled out completely.Unfortunately, it\u2019s not just local police forces that are militarized; national police agencies are as well. The Department of Homeland Security has the largest law enforcement agency in the country, with ICE and the Border Patrol heavily invested in tactics and strategies developed in war zones. They use all manner of military equipment, including battle-tested helicopters and weaponized drone aircraft.Their reach is much farther into the country than most people realize. Customs and Border Protection, which includes the Border Patrol, has a huge jurisdiction that stretches 100 miles from any U.S. international border, whether on land or at sea. That means it covers the entire state of Florida and the entire state of Maine, as well as virtually every major metropolitan area. These agencies routinely use interior checkpoints far from any border for roundups of suspected undocumented immigrants and conduct various other kinds of Homeland Security investigations.Immigration and Customs Enforcement is the second largest federal investigative agency in the country after the FBI, with more that 20,000 employees. Under the direction of former Marine Gen. John Kelly (now the White House chief of staff), and despite protestations that they are only going after the \u201cbad hombres,\u201d ICE agents have been instructed to \u201ctake off the gloves\u201d and\u00a0seize\u00a0any and all undocumented immigrants that may cross their paths.As Kelly\u2019s last act as DHS director, the agency conducted a nationwide sweep.\u00a0According to Vox, these were the results:Immigration and Customs Enforcement launched a nationwide sweep \u2014 ostensibly designed to catch Central Americans who\u2019d come to the US as family units \u2014 in late July. But according to the press release they sent out\u00a0Tuesday, 70 percent of the immigrants they captured were merely collateral damage \u2026 that means more than half of the immigrants picked up in last week\u2019s ICE raids hadn\u2019t been targeted and didn\u2019t have criminal records.In case anyone is inclined to think that such a powerful, lawless police agency is no threat to law-abiding citizens, this should serve as a wake-up call. Betsy Woodruff at the Daily Beast\u00a0reported\u00a0that when the first version of the travel ban went into effect shortly after Trump\u2019s inauguration, high-level Homeland Security officials issued specific orders to treat immigration lawyers as protesters and to refuse to cooperate with members of Congress. They photographed elected officials who came to the airports and shared the information with other offices, which should make even Trump-friendly congressional representatives a little nervous.This is a powerful federal police force whose agents have been given a green light to do whatever they want. As\u00a0this New Yorker article by Jonathan Blitzer\u00a0points out, some longtime agents are nervous about it:\u201cI like predictability,\u201d the agent said. \u201cI like being able to go into work and have faith in my senior managers and the Administration, and to know that, regardless of their political views, at the end of the day they\u2019re going to do something that\u2019s appropriate. I don\u2019t feel that way anymore.\u201dFurthermore, the Trump administration wants to hire 15,000 more agents to throw into this chaos. According to a new report by the DHS inspector general, that would require vetting more than a million people in order to fill those jobs.\u00a0Even worse, the report says that the department is so poorly run that it couldn\u2019t come up with any decent reason to justify hiring all those new agents in the first place.I\u2019m not sure this will stop them from doing it. We already knew that\u00a0the agency planned\u00a0to lower its standards anyway. Remember, the \u201claw and order\u201d president promised his loyalists that \u201cAmerican carnage stops right here and stops right now.\u201d He wants his police state.Maybe Congress will finally find some backbone in its dealings with President Trump and tighten the purse strings. We can only hope so. These massive paramilitary agencies have already expanded their mission beyond any reasonable scope. They represent a threat to democracy and the rule of law, and the last thing we need is even more of them.Note: Unless President Trump resigns or declares war I\u2019ll be off until Aug. 16.\u00a0 Heather Digby Parton, also known as \"Digby,\" is a contributing writer to Salon. She was the winner of the 2014 Hillman Prize for Opinion and Analysis Journalism. More Heather Digby Parton. Comments Trending Video WATCH: \"Just saying that facts matter . . . seems radical today\" Amanda Marcotte WATCH: Who benefits from gentrification? Alli Joseph WATCH: Remembering Princess Diana, fun mum and Enya fan Mary Elizabeth Williams Collapsing house of cards: Should we be grateful for the shocking incompetence of Team Trump? Bob Cesca follow us Home | About | Advertising | Contact | Corrections | Help | Investor Relations | Privacy | Terms of Service Copyright \u00a9 2017 Salon Media Group, Inc. Reproduction of material from any Salon pages without written permission is strictly prohibited.SALON \u00ae is registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office as a trademark of Salon Media Group Inc.Associated Press articles: Copyright \u00a9 2017 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. "}