{"url": "http://www.nydailynews.com/news/world/pope-francis-associates-target-steve-bannon-ultraconservatives-article-1.3380140", "text": " Pope Francis associates target Steve Bannon, ultraconservatives - NY Daily News Trending: STEPHEN MILLER ANTHONY SCARAMUCCI JARED KUSHNER MTA OPIOID NATION Sections Sections Home Home New York NYC Crime Bronx Brooklyn Manhattan Queens Education Weather Obituaries Sports Yankees Mets Giants Jets Knicks Nets Rangers Islanders Football Basketball Baseball Hockey Soccer College I'd Click That More Sports Odds News Crime U.S. World Politics Entertainment Gossip Movies TV Music Theater & Arts Crosswords Entertainment Pics Horoscopes Daily Weekly Monthly Lifestyle Health Food Viva Opinion Autos Buyer's Guide Ratings & Reviews News & Views Photos & Galleries Covers Classifieds Trending: STEPHEN MILLER ANTHONY SCARAMUCCI JARED KUSHNER MTA OPIOID NATION New York Daily News news Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Pinterest YouTube Subscribe Follow UsNews AlertsApp Subscriptions SubscribeREADY FOR THE DAILY NEWS IN REAL TIME?Sign up now to start receiving breaking news alerts on the web.Available only on Chrome and Firefox browsersOpt-In NowGet the latest breaking news, entertainment, sports and more.Download Our AppSubscribe to the newspaper, our e-edition, or both.Subscribe Select Sport Football Basketball Baseball Hockey Soccer Golf College More Sports Crime U.S. World Politics Share This facebook Tweet email Pope Francis associates target Steve Bannon and ultraconservative U.S. Catholics\u00a0in essay Pope Francis associates target Steve Bannon, ultraconservatives BY Jessica Schladebeck NEW YORK DAILY NEWS Thursday, August 3, 2017, 2:20 AM facebook Tweet email Senior Counselor to the President Steve Bannon was singled out in an essay written by two associates of Pope Francis. (Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images) BY Jessica Schladebeck NEW YORK DAILY NEWS Thursday, August 3, 2017, 2:20 AM Not all religious ultraconservatives go to Heaven. A pair of Pope Francis\u2019 close associates took aim at American Catholic ultraconservatives and accused them of partaking in an \u201cecumenism of hate\u201d in the journal, La Civilt\u00e0 Cattolica. They suggest certain voters across the country are using their cause of religious liberty and opposition to abortion to institute a \u201ctheocratic type of state.\u201d The article, titled \u201cEvangelical Fundamentalism and Catholic Integrism\u201d identifies President Trump\u2019s chief strategist at the White House, Steve Bannon, as a \u201csupporter of an apocalyptic geopolitics,\u201d who has blocked action on climate change and exploited \u201cxenophobic and Islamophobic visions that wants walls and purifying deportations.\u201d Bannon, a former altar boy who has been outspoken about his faith, told the New York Times the essay \u201clit me up.\u201d Sign on Pope Francis's Vatican door tells visitors: 'No whining' Author Rev. Antonio Spadaro told the newspaper it was important to examine the \u201capocalyptic narrative which inspires\u201d Bannon. Conservative politicians have expressed concern about Pope Francis' stance on social issues. (PATRICIA DE MELO MOREIRA/AFP/Getty Images) Spadaro, a confidant of the Pope who edits the journal, and fellow author Marcelo Figueroa, an Argentine Presbyterian Minister also close with Francis, said the perspectives of American evangelicals and traditional Catholics, which are based on literal interpretations of the Bible, are \u201cnot too far apart\u201d from the worldview of a jihadist. They additionally contend the American evangelical and ultraconservative Christians could taint the Roman Catholic faith by forcing \u201creligious influence in the political sphere.\u201d The essay has received its share of both backlash and praise, and Spadaro, who has previously been called \u201cthe pope\u2019s mouthpiece,\u201d said the response was \u201cincredible.\u201d Pope Francis says gluten-free communion wafers don\u2019t cut it He told the New York Times critics were primarily opponents of Francis \u201cwho are trying to downplay the role of this pontificate.\u201d 175 photos view gallery Pope Francis visits the United States Since the election of Pope Francis in 2013, conservatives have been concerned about his stance on social issues, including abortions and same-sex marriage. Some have gone so far as to accuse him of diluting the church\u2019s doctrine. Spadaro said the underlying focus of the article is the pope\u2019s argument against religion in the service of politics or power. He added such manipulation of religious principles could render the church a \u201csect of the pure,\u201d according to the Times. Spadaro would not say whether the article earned Francis\u2019 approval nor whether he\u2019s spoken to the Pope since its publication. Tags: pope francis stephen bannon religion donald trump Send a Letter to the Editor Join the Conversation: facebook Tweet Get Daily News stories, delivered to your inbox. Sign Up Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Pinterest YouTube Support Subscribe Contact Us Terms of Service Privacy Policy Keep in Touch Newsletter Apps Subscribe Feeds Support & Contact Contact Us Careers Site Map Terms of Use Ad Choices Terms of Service Privacy Policy Advertising Media Kit Place An Ad Special SectionsContests Daily News Covers \u00a9 Copyright 2017 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved. "}