{"url": "https://newrepublic.com/minutes/144187/donald-trump-cucked-border-wall-mexico", "text": "Donald Trump cucked out on the border wall with Mexico. | New RepublicCloseLatestMinutesPoliticsCultureMagazineClimateBooksPhotographyPodcastsSubscribeAboutAdvertiseContactFAQPressJobsRSSMastheadPrivacySubscriber ServicesMenuMagazineSubscribeClio Chang2 days agoSAUL LOEB/AFP/Getty ImagesDonald Trump cucked out on the border wall with Mexico. One of Trump\u2019s central promises during his campaign was that he was going to build a big, beautiful wall and that Mexico was going to pay for it. Stoking racist fears was one of the pillars on which Trump was elected\u2014he underscored this point with a truly nasty speech last month in which he contended that illegal immigrants were \u201canimals\u201d who wanted to \u201cslice and dice\u201d young girls. But on Thursday, The Washington Post published full transcripts of two separate calls that Trump made with Mexican President Pe\u00f1a Nieto and Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull. In his January 27 call with Pe\u00f1a Nieto, Trump made it clear that he realized his ridiculous assertion that Mexico would fund the wall was turning into a political problem for him. Trump then asked Pe\u00f1a Nieto if he would please kindly just stop talking about it. (Two days earlier, Trump had signed an executive order to begin construction on the wall.) \u201cBelieve it or not, this is the least important thing that we are talking about, but politically this might be the most important talk about,\u201d Trump told Pe\u00f1a Nieto. When Pe\u00f1a Nieto affirmed that his position was \u201cthat Mexico cannot pay for the wall,\u201d Trump replied, \u201cBut you cannot say that to the press. The press is going to go with that and I cannot live with that.\u201d He told Pe\u00f1a Nieto that the funding would \u201cwork out in the formula somehow.\u201d They both seemed to agree to put the topic of the wall aside. Trump, of course, has since continued to push the idea that Mexico will pay for the wall... Eventually, but at a later date so we can get started early, Mexico will be paying, in some form, for the badly needed border wall.\u2014 Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 23, 2017...eventually. At a later date. In some form. August 04, 2017Clio Changa day agoJustin Merriman/Getty ImagesEveryone in Congress is really stressed about the pee tape.In January, BuzzFeed published an unverified dossier alleging possible collusion between Russia and Donald Trump that was compiled by ex-British intelligence officer Christopher Steele (coincidentally, also the name of an ex-British intelligence officer in my unfinished romance novel). The most salacious allegation, of course, was that Russian authorities had obtained sweet, sweet kompromat on Trump in the form of a video that showed Trump, who stayed in a hotel room in Moscow that the Obamas had previously stayed in, \u201cdefiling the bed where they had slept by employing a number of prostitutes to perform a \u2018golden showers\u2019 (urination) show in front of him.\u201d For the record, there is no evidence (thus far) that the pee tape actually exists. But, thankfully, what is dead may never die. On Friday, Politico reported that two Republican House Intelligence Committee staffers went to London earlier in the summer to leave calling cards for Steele. According to Politico, Republicans did not tell Democrats on the House committee, the Senate Intelligence Committee, or Robert Mueller about the trip. Apparently, everyone is paranoid about what may or may not be happening around the dossier:The London trip has also angered Democrats in both chambers of Congress, who were not consulted by their colleagues before the investigators knocked on Steele\u2019s door. Democrats fear House investigators are more interested in discrediting the dossier than trying to substantiate its allegations.Some Republicans, meanwhile, distrust their Democratic colleagues\u2014suspecting them of maintaining a back channel to Steele to discuss the allegations in the dossier, something the Republicans say would be inappropriate.Since everyone and their mother is trying to get to the bottom of the dossier, it might be worthwhile to look at everything we know about the pee tape.First off, immediately after BuzzFeed published the dossier, Trump tweeted the following:FAKE NEWS - A TOTAL POLITICAL WITCH HUNT!\u2014 Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 11, 2017Back then, this was only the second time in history that Trump had tweeted the term \u201cFake News.\u201d The dossier\u2019s publication clearly touched a nerve. Since then, rumors of the pee tape have persisted throughout Trump\u2019s Russia scandal. A key part of the dossier\u2014that a Russian diplomat was actually a spy under diplomatic cover\u2014was confirmed by the BBC, which, as the BBC writes, \u201cadds weight to Steele\u2019s other claims.\u201d Then, in June, James Comey released his memos, which detail that Trump brought up the dossier multiple times to him. Trump said that he was considering asking Comey to \u201cinvestigate the alleged incident to prove it didn\u2019t happen.\u201d He also asserted that he \u201chad not been involved with hookers in Russia.\u201d Does this sound like someone who is not worried about the existence of a pee tape?Then, during Comey\u2019s testimony before Congress, Senator Richard Burr directly asked Comey about the dossier: \u201cAt the time of your departure from the FBI, was the FBI able to confirm any criminal allegations contained in the Steele document?\u201d Comey responded with a non-denial: \u201cI don\u2019t think that\u2019s a question I can answer in an open setting because it goes into the details of the investigation.\u201d Sounds like someone who doesn\u2019t want to talk in an open setting about the possible existence of a pee tape.Then, in an extensive interview with The New York Times in July, Trump brought up the dossier again, making the claim the Comey had used the dossier as leverage to try to keep his job. Later in the month, Kellyanne Conway went on Fox News to say that the dossier is a \u201cfancy French word for la loade du junk.\u201dDossier=fancy French word for \"la loade du junk\". https://t.co/ohM0bvMf3i\u2014 Kellyanne Conway (@KellyannePolls) July 29, 2017Much of the dossier may very well be a loade du junk. But everyone wants to get to the bottom of this junk. And until they do, the pee tape lives on. Alex Shepharda day agoWin McNamee/GettyThis is what a \u201cdisciplined\u201d Trump looks like.After John Kelly became chief of staff on Monday\u2014taking over from the comically ineffectual Reince Priebus\u2014there were some signs that President Trump was maybe, just maybe, beginning to not act like a toddler all the time. The tweeting and the outbursts were cut to a minimum. The New York Times reported on Thursday evening that Kelly was moving to instill \u201cmilitary discipline\u201d in the West Wing: Kelly cuts off rambling advisers midsentence. He listens in on conversations between cabinet secretaries and the president. He has booted lingering staff members out of high-level meetings, and ordered the doors of the Oval Office closed to discourage strays. He fired Anthony Scaramucci, the bombastic New Yorker who was briefly the communications director, and has demanded that even Mr. Trump\u2019s family, including his daughter Ivanka Trump and son-in-law, Jared Kushner, check with him if they want face time with the president.Well, it was good while it lasted. Trump waited a few hours to unload after multiple outlets reported that special counsel Robert Mueller had impaneled a grand jury, but unload he did. First, at a rally in West Virginia, he once again moved the goalposts on the Russia story, this time bizarrely claiming that because no Russians were a part of the Trump campaign, there could have been no collusion:President Trump jokes, \"Are there any Russians here tonight?\" while addressing investigation into Russian collusion https://t.co/QCc5abpiup\u2014 NBC News (@NBCNews) August 3, 2017And then, on Friday morning, Trump once again waded into the investigation, this time retweeting a clip from Fox & Friends suggesting that there would be an \u201cuproar\u201d if Mueller\u2019s Russia probe ensnared a member of the president\u2019s family. (CNN reported on Thursday that Mueller had issued subpoenas relating to Don Jr.\u2019s meeting with a bunch of Russians in 2016.).@JudgeJeanine: There will be an uproar in this country if they end up with an indictment against a Trump family member just to get at POTUS pic.twitter.com/tm10kRA2Ws\u2014 FOX & friends (@foxandfriends) August 4, 2017This is clearly a message aimed at Mueller: Mess with the Trump family and there will be consequences. And, while Trump had largely stayed silent this week, it\u2019s clear that he\u2019s still itching for a very public fight with the special counsel. As for military discipline, Trump has tweeted eleven times this morning\u2014and John Kelly has presumably set his \u201cdays without a tweetstorm\u201d tracker back to zero. August 03, 2017Sarah Jones2 days agoDarren Carroll / Getty ImagesOf course Jim Justice is turning Republican. The New York Times reports that West Virginia Gov. Jim Justice, a Democrat, will switch parties tonight in an appearance with Donald Trump:Speaking to reporters in the White House Thursday, Mr. Trump promised \u201ca very big announcement\u201d at a gathering in Huntington, W.V., that is expected to draw thousands of supporters from across Appalachia, a region that gave Mr. Trump some of the largest margins of his election.This is the opposite of a shock. Justice was once a registered Republican. He openly campaigned on his friendship with Trump and the two share a disdain for business ethics: He is the state\u2019s only billionaire, a coal baron whose companies owed $4.4 million in unpaid taxes earlier this year. His defection is also conveniently timed. Justice is fresh from a bitter budget fight\u2014one that he mostly lost. His announcement can be viewed as an attempt to curry favor with a state that overwhelmingly voted for Trump. But there are deeper currents to note. Justice\u2019s defection is made possible at least in part by the Democratic Party itself. Its infrastructure in conservative areas is notoriously weak. There\u2019s not much evidence the state party even wanted an alternative to Justice, which is itself proof of a troubling tendency: The party backs conservative candidates in states like West Virginia because its leadership believes that is the only way to win elections there. This is a strategy that sacrifices long-term progress in favor of short-term electoral gains, and prevents the party from building up a progressive presence. Further, it leaves the party particularly vulnerable to defections. If Justice indeed switches parties tonight, Democrats should rethink this strategy. Voters have no reason to vote for Democrats instead of Republicans if there\u2019s literally no difference between Democratic and Republican candidates. Justice may inadvertently do the left a favor. Emily Atkin2 days agoSaul Loeb/GettyTrump is about to lose one of his only actual accomplishments.The president likes to say he\u2019s accomplished quite a bit in his first six months. He\u2019s signed more than three dozen executive orders, announced the U.S. withdrawal from the Paris climate agreement, and turned the White House into a reality show where someone goes home every week. But a lot of these actions don\u2019t translate into tangible accomplishments. Technically, the U.S. is still party to the Paris accord. And most of Trump\u2019s executive orders start the process of undoing regulations, instead of actually undoing them. One of the few immediately effective things Trump has done, though, was approve the Keystone XL pipeline. In early January, Trump reversed the Obama administration\u2019s 2015 rejection of the controversial 1,179-mile project that would have transported heavy tar sands oil from Canada to the Gulf Coast. There were still a few hurdles the pipeline developer had to jump through after Trump\u2019s approval, but ultimately, his issuance of a presidential permit was seen as the last real obstacle to construction. \u201cKeystone is a done deal,\u201d Vermont Law School Professor Patrick Parenteau told me in April. But Keystone XL is no longer a done deal. According to a report in The Hill, pipeline developer TransCanada is telling investors it hasn\u2019t decided whether to build the pipeline at all. The company is unsure there are enough oil companies that would pay to use the pipeline, because tar sands oil\u2014a heavy, high-polluting Canadian product\u2014is becoming too expensive to extract and process. \u201cFrankly, in the current price climate, [Keystone XL] is probably not going to be a going venture unless there\u2019s a massive improvement in technology\u201d for processing tar sands, University of Wyoming professor of petroleum Charles Mason told ABC News on Thursday. Keystone XL\u2019s potential failure would be a blow to Trump\u2019s legacy, since approving the pipeline was one of his signature campaign promises. But it\u2019s also a warning for Trump\u2019s entire energy agenda of promoting dirty fuels like tar sands and coal. If the market for high-polluting fuels is in decline, then so are Trump\u2019s policies.Sign up for your daily dose of politics, culture, and big ideas.Sign UpRachel Stone2 days agoSaul Loeb / AFP / Getty ImagesDemocrats have an abortion problem.As the Democratic Party prepares its agenda ahead of the 2018 midterms, abortion has emerged as a divisive issue. On one side are those who consider reproductive rights too ideologically thorny for the populism of the Democrats\u2019 \u201cBetter Deal\u201d agenda.Members of this camp include DCCC Chairman Ben Ray Luj\u00e1n, who said in a recent interview with The Hill that there will be no litmus tests on abortion for Democratic candidates. Luj\u00e1n stressed the importance of a \u201cbroad coalition,\u201d saying, \u201cWe have to be a big family in order to win the House back.\u201d He amended that statement yesterday on his Facebook page, asserting that he is \u201cpro-women, pro-choice, and fully respect[s] the connection between a woman\u2019s health, her economic future, and the future of our country,\u201d even though he is all for welcoming representatives who threaten the reproductive rights of uterus-having individuals.On the other side are progressive groups who see economic justice and reproductive justice as interconnected issues, and who don\u2019t believe in sidelining abortion rights in favor of a narrowly tailored economic agenda.In a post released yesterday from NARAL Pro-Choice America and Democracy for America (DFA), leading progressive groups\u2014including Planned Parenthood Action Fund, EMILY\u2019s List, and Daily Kos\u2014signed a statement of principles in response to Luj\u00e1n\u2019s comments. As progressives, we know we cannot have a real conversation about economic security that does not include the ability to decide if, when, and how to raise a family; that being able to plan a pregnancy has a powerful effect on educational attainment, career trajectory, and chance to define our own destinies.As progressives, we stand united in understanding that policies that limit access to abortion and force medically unnecessary procedures are oppressive to women, especially low-income women and women of color.\u201cAbortion rights are inextricably tied to the fight against economic and racial inequity, full stop,\u201d said DFA\u2019s Charles Chamberlain in a statement. Liberal women are bound to be disappointed that pro-choice rights are not considered central enough to the party message to merit a firm place in its agenda\u2014a move that foreshadows a 2018 race where women will be asked to stand by a party that will bargain with their bodies in order to appeal to centrist voters. They will also be disappointed to know that reproductive rights are considered auxiliary to what Democrats have deemed to be the \u201creal fights.\u201dAlex Shephard2 days agoCourtesy of FacebookOh my god, Mark Zuckerberg is serious about this whole running for president thing.For the last several months, America\u2019s worst millennial has been criss-crossing the country, spending time looking at cows and looking at trains and smiling in a way that does not in the slightest suggest at least 10,000 hours of practice. Although he has conceivably talked to hundreds of people on these journeys, he has also not learned how to speak: he wins the democratic primary guaranteed pic.twitter.com/EAQJfIY4y5\u2014 jack allison (@jackallisonLOL) May 26, 2017All of this\u2014the looking at stuff, the meeting with \u201cordinary folks,\u201d the forced references to J.K. Rowling and Beyonce\u2014suggests that the Facebook founder is up to something, either running for office or trying to discover, at long last, what it means to be a real boy. But Zuckerberg has denied again and again that he has the presidency in mind, even as he hired people like former Obama man David Plouffe to work for him. Throughout all of this, it was at least possible that Mark Zuckerberg, the only person under 70 who thinks Mark Zuckerberg is cool, was really on a high-profile PR tour\u2014that all of these visits were really about trying to improve Facebook\u2019s (and his) image after both took a hit during 2016. But on Wednesday evening, Zuckerberg\u2019s plausible deniability\u2014which was never all that plausible, given that no one has ever toured a factory without declaring a plan to run for higher office six months later\u2014finally became implausible. Politico reports that Zuckerberg has hired fancy pollster Joel Benenson, who was last seen being hated by everyone in the Clinton campaign in Shattered. (\u201cCondescending, dismissive, nasty\u201d is how Benenson is described, a description that also applies to Jesse Eisenberg\u2019s portrayal of Zuckerberg in Aaron Sorkin\u2019s biopic.) Presumably, Benenson has been hired to test if Zuckerberg has a shot at winning the Democratic nomination for 2020\u2014and not to help Mark figure out what a truck stop is. Zuckerberg will drop out after getting 3 percent of the vote in New Hampshire.August 02, 2017Suzanne Monyak3 days agoJim Watson/AFP/Getty ImagesDonald Trump is going back to playing his greatest hit: immigration.Amid scandals and turnover at the White House, the president on Wednesday returned to his tried-and-true tactic of anti-immigrant rhetoric. Not cracking down on illegal immigration or undocumented immigrants who have committed crimes, mind you, but on legal immigration\u2014specifically for lower-skilled immigrants on temporary work visas.Trump showed his support for newly revised legislation, called the RAISE Act, that would slash legal immigration in half over the next decade and establish a points-based immigration system, including criteria like English language skills and financial stability. The bill, initially introduced by Republican Senators Tom Cotton of Arkansas and David Perdue of Georgia in February, also proposes to eliminate the Diversity Visa lottery program and lower the numbers of family-based visas issued. From The Washington Post:To achieve the reductions, Cotton and Perdue are taking aim at green cards for extended family members of U.S. citizens and legal permanent residents, including grown children, grandparents and siblings. Minor children and spouses would still be allowed to apply for green cards.Trump told a crowd in Youngsville, Ohio, last week that he wanted the U.S. to transition to a merit-based immigration system, rather than one that prioritizes family ties in the U.S., similar to what already exists in Canada. \u201cInstead of today\u2019s low-skill system\u2014just a terrible system, where anybody comes in, people that have never worked, people who are criminals, anybody comes in\u2014we want a merit-based system, one that protects our workers, our taxpayers, and one that protects our economy,\u201d Trump said. He also called to ban immigrants from benefiting from government welfare for the first five years of residence.Trump has praised the Canadian immigration system before, most recently in a speech to Congress last February. Prospective immigrants to Canada are evaluated on a points system, which rewards applicants based on their level of education, families ties, and employability, among other criteria. But Canada\u2019s system is more complicated than Trump realizes, and it aims to increase immigration in Canada, not curb it as Trump has proposed doing in the United States. But to Trump\u2019s core supporters, the president\u2019s America First rhetoric is always a hit.Sarah Jones3 days agoChip Somodevilla / Getty ImagesJeff \u201cI\u2019m not a racist\u201d Sessions is now going after affirmative action. \u201cIt was very painful, I didn\u2019t know how to respond,\u201d Sessions once said in response to accusations that he is racist. Sessions also once joked that he thought the KKK was ok until he learned they smoked pot, and reportedly called a black attorney \u201cboy.\u201d Now, as our attorney general, he has decided to take on discrimination\u2014against whites.According to The New York Times, a leaked document suggests that Sessions\u2019s Justice Department intends to begin suing universities over their affirmative action policies:The document does not explicitly identify whom the Justice Department considers at risk of discrimination because of affirmative action admissions policies. But the phrasing it uses, \u201cintentional race-based discrimination,\u201d cuts to the heart of programs designed to bring more minority students to university campuses.If the Trump administration possesses any guiding philosophy, it is white grievance. In fact, college admissions\u2014especially at elite colleges\u2014tilt heavily in favor of whites. This is due largely to the racial wealth gap. According to the Economic Policy Institute, the median household wealth for white families is $134,230; it is only $11,030 for black families. College degrees do not eliminate that racial wealth gap, either. Meanwhile, The Harvard Crimson reports that the median family income for Harvard undergraduates is $168,800. (It\u2019s $204,200 at Brown.)And wealthy students have long benefited from their own form of affirmative action. In a 2016 piece for Town and Country magazine, journalist Daniel Golden explained:One [study] put the advantage of being an alumni child at 160 points on the SAT, which had a possible range of 400 to 1600. Another examined admissions decisions at 30 highly selective colleges and universities and concluded that the odds of a legacy being accepted at the alma mater of one of his or her parents are more than seven times better than an ordinary applicant\u2019s.But facts, as we know, matter little to Trump or to the rest of his administration. Call it government by Daily Caller comment section: The right-wing base believes it\u2019s true, so by God the Trump administration is going to tell them it is true. In doing so, they behave like typical Republicans. The administration\u2019s war on minorities is simply the culmination of a decades-long political project. Lee Atwater would be proud. Alex Shephard3 days agoJim Watson/GettyIs tax reform the new health care reform?In the wake of Trumpcare\u2019s spectacular failure, the Trump administration has sent conflicting signals as to where it will go next. The president has insisted repeatedly that Republicans not give up on repealing and replacing Obamacare, and has threatened to let the individual exchanges, which are on shaky ground, implode. But others have suggested that it may be time to move on. On Monday, speaking with Tim Phillips of the Koch-backed Americans For Prosperity, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin insisted that tax reform will pass. \u201cThis is a pass/fail exercise, and we will pass tax reform,\u201d Mnuchin said. Phillips told him that Americans for Prosperity\u2014and, one assumes by extension, the Kochs\u2014had the administration\u2019s back: \u201cWe\u2019re going all in,\u201d he said. Trump has yet to sign a major piece of legislation and there\u2019s growing pressure for him to do so. But tax reform won\u2019t be a cake walk\u2014in fact, it faces many of the same hurdles that health care reform did, and some new ones as well. For starters, there\u2019s the fact that Congress is only in session for 12 days before we hit another \u201cfiscal cliff\u201d on September 29. \u201cCongress\u2019s most immediate concern ... is the debt ceiling,\u201d The Washington Post reported earlier this week. \u201cFailing to raise the ceiling could spark a global financial crisis, leading to a stock market crash, a spike in interest rates, and a potential economic recession.\u201d If Republicans make big demands\u2014most notably cuts in entitlements or other federal spending\u2014this could be a real crisis. Meanwhile, Trump has also threatened not to sign anything until Obamacare is repealed, effectively taking Congress hostage. Unless the Republican Senators are total quitters, Repeal & Replace is not dead! Demand another vote before voting on any other bill!\u2014 Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 29, 2017The president, of course, has little truck in the Senate at the moment\u2014but the level of distrust only makes a tax reform deal before 2018 more unlikely. If Mitch McConnell once again decides to pass legislation without Democratic help, he can only lose three Republican senators. While tax reform may be easier to swallow than cutting millions from their health care plans, the objections to the bill that Republican leadership is likely to put forward will be similar to the objections to its odious health care bill. Republican tax reform will, like health care reform, effectively be a massive transfer of wealth upward. President Trump likes to brag about how well the stock market is doing, but the fact that corporations are doing exceedingly well at the moment hardly bolsters the need to lower their tax rates. Given the vast difference in priorities, a bipartisan tax deal is highly unlikely\u2014nevertheless, Republicans aren\u2019t speaking to Democrats about tax reform at this time. The president wants a win and fast, but that increasingly looks like it won\u2019t happen before 2018\u2014when skittish Republicans will be heading into a crucial election. August 01, 2017Sarah Jones4 days agoWin McNamee / Getty ImagesWhy it\u2019s troubling that Jeff Sessions just appointed a former general to lead civilian prisons. Recently retired Army Maj. General Mark Inch will lead the Federal Bureau of Prisons, The Hill reported on Tuesday. Inch will oversee federal prisons that incarcerate 187,315 individuals. From The Hill: \u201cGeneral Mark Inch has served this country at home and abroad for 35 years,\u201d Sessions said in a statement.\u201cAs a military policeman for nearly a quarter of a century and as the head of Army Corrections for the last two years, General Inch is uniquely qualified to lead our federal prison system.\u201dBut there are several reasons to fear Inch\u2019s appointment. The first is most obvious: He has never managed a civilian prison. He oversaw detainee operations in Iraq in 2008 and 2009, and dedicated his entire career to military policing. And though he retired in May, his appointment is just the latest evidence that the Trump administration has something of a fetish for generals, which could further erode long-standing distinctions between military and civilian leadership. It is also disturbing, though not particularly surprising, that Inch is a Sessions hire. Sessions is committed to the war on drugs; he is intent on expanding police power in dangerous ways. It seems entirely likely that he believes a former general with decades of experience in military policing shares his draconian approach to law enforcement. And like Sessions, Inch has ties to the religious right. He attended Wheaton College, where he majored in \u201cbiblical archaeology,\u201d and served as commanding general of Fort Leonard Wood in Missouri when David Barton spoke at the fort\u2019s National Day of Prayer breakfast. (Barton, for the unfamiliar, has dedicated his entire career to promoting the debunked idea that America was founded on fundamentalist Christian principles; he routinely invents religious quotes that he then attributes to various Founding Fathers.) In a March 30 interview with MP Project Junto, Inch also credited a \u201cfaith-based Christian counselor\u201d for helping him recover from the stress of a deployment to train Somali police.It\u2019s fine, of course, if Inch seeks faith-based counseling in his personal life. But religious groups already cross First Amendment boundaries to proselytize prisoners. Inch\u2019s record does not inspire confidence that he will maintain those boundaries, and his appointment may well prove to be another victory for the religious right. FacebookInstagramTwitterLinkedInCopyright 2017 \u00a9 New Republic. All rights reserved."}