{"url": "http://www.msnbc.com/morning-joe/watch/trump-s-approval-drops-seven-points-in-new-poll-1016245315918", "text": "Trump's approval drops seven points in new poll | MSNBCJump to NavigationMSNBCfacebooktwittergoogle plusrsstumblrinstagramExploreAll {{issue.issue.title}} Latest {{topic.topic.short_title}} {{teaser.description}}WatchFeatured ShowsWeekdayWeekendWatch VideosLIVE: Watch MSNBCTV ScheduleSearch VideosDigital DocumentariesNewslettersHelpLive TVsharetweetemailsaveEmbedMorning Joe 08/03/17 Trump's approval drops seven points in new poll President Trump's job approval number is now at 33 percent, down seven points since the end of June, according to the latest Quinnipiac poll. ...moreDuration: {{video.duration.momentjs}}Up next in: White House Trump's approval drops seven points in new... info Trump's approval drops seven points in new...President Trump's job approval number is now at 33 percent, down seven points since the end of June, according to the latest Quinnipiac poll.Morning Joe 08/03/17Duration: 3:51save Kelly takes over as chief of staff of... info Kelly takes over as chief of staff of...Gen. Kelly may have to administer the White House with a very firm hand, according to our guests, to improve the processes of the Trump administration.AM Joy07/30/17Duration: 16:11save Reince Priebus out as White House Chief of... info Reince Priebus out as White House Chief of...Joy Reid and her panel discuss what\u2019s next as Gen. Kelly takes over as White House Chief of Staff, amid numerous shake-ups in the Trump administration.AM Joy07/29/17Duration: 14:38save Anthony Scaramucci wasn\u2019t always on the... info Anthony Scaramucci wasn\u2019t always on the...The new White House communications director, Anthony Scaramucci, has called Donald Trump a \u2018hack\u2019 and a \u2018bully\u2019 in the past. Joy Reid and her panel discuss him now lavishing praise on the president.AM Joy07/22/17Duration: 10:27save Advice to Trump staffers: Run! info Advice to Trump staffers: Run!Joy Reid and her panelists debate: Will people who stick around in the Trump administration be able to survive (or thrive), or will their careers be destroyed?AM Joy05/21/17Duration: 7:48save Health care failure leads to Republican... info Health care failure leads to Republican...The failure of the Republicans' health care bill has potentially led to a political blow-up between the Steve Bannon and Paul Ryan factions of the party. The Washington Post's Jonathan Capehart, MSNBC's Joy Reid, former Breitbart Media Consultant Kurt...AM Joy03/26/17Duration: 15:57save US policy in Africa under a Trump presidency info US policy in Africa under a Trump presidencyWill a Trump presidency hurt the U.S.' involvement with African nations? MSNBC's Joy Reid and panel discuss.AM Joy12/11/16Duration: 8:07saveChannelsMSNBCTVRetrieving data...LIVEwatch nowInformationfull TV schedulevideosWhite HousecommentsTop Storiesfrom NBC News and MSNBC Congress leaves town exhausted and unsuccessful McMaster: Russia has created a dangerous situation7 hours 31 min ago Stock market gains only benefit some Americans1 day 47 min ago Is Trump's base having doubts?2 hours 58 min ago What is the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau?1 day 45 min ago Report: Mueller seeks WH docs on Flynn18 hours 6 min ago GOP inactivity could mean disaster for Trump6 hours 31 min agoCan Trump take credit for economic growth?Trump supporters call Russia story a hoaxTrump admin announces crackdown on leaksBest of MSNBC The perils of Trump's reliance on generals info The perils of Trump's reliance on generalsThe new Chief of Staff, Ret. Gen. John Kelly, is trying to restore order to a White House under siege. But is President Trump relying too much on military officials for civilian jobs? Tom Nichols of the U.S. Naval War College and Jonathan Capehart join...The Last Word with Lawrence O'Donnell08/04/17Duration: 8:50save NYT: Mueller now asking White House for... info NYT: Mueller now asking White House for...A new report says Robert Mueller has now asked the White House for documents related to Michael Flynn's business practices, a first for the probe, and investigators are interviewing witnesses. Walter Dellinger, Samuel Buell, and Michael Isikoff join...The Last Word with Lawrence O'Donnell08/04/17Duration: 15:05save Meet Amy McGrath: Fighter pilot hoping to ... info Meet Amy McGrath: Fighter pilot hoping to ...Lt. Col. Amy McGrath, the 1st female Marine to fly in an F-18 in combat, is challenging the GOP incumbent Kentucky congressman, who she says, like McConnell, ignores Obamacare's benefits for Kentuckians. She also shares her advice for Pres. Trump about...The Last Word with Lawrence O'Donnell08/04/17Duration: 5:36save China going green to restore blue sky info China going green to restore blue skyRichard Engel looks at how China's coal-powered industrialization has resulted in heavy pollution, and how China hopes to restore its blue skies with a new focus on renewable energy.The Rachel Maddow Show08/04/17Duration: 3:54save Developing areas skip coal for cheap solar info Developing areas skip coal for cheap solarJanis Mackey Frayer, NBC News correspondent, looks at how the dropping price of solar energy is changing life in developing areas of the world.The Rachel Maddow Show08/04/17Duration: 4:58save Missed climate goals a legacy of US politics info Missed climate goals a legacy of US politicsRichard Engel traces the history of U.S. efforts to address climate change, from the creation of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change during the Reagan administration to Donald Trump's pullout from the Paris climate accord.The Rachel Maddow Show08/04/17Duration: 4:39save Top diplomat quits over Trump climate policy info Top diplomat quits over Trump climate policyRichard Engel talks with the former top U.S. diplomat in China, David Rank, who resigned from 27 years in foreign service over Donald Trump's environmental policies, citing patriotism, parenthood, and Christianity as his motivation.The Rachel Maddow Show08/04/17Duration: 6:43save US cities pursue green future despite Trump info US cities pursue green future despite TrumpAnne Thompson, NBC News chief environmental affairs correspondent, looks at how the city of Pittsburgh is pursuing green energy as part of its tech growth strategy as Donald Trump keeps the US facing backward at a coal-powered past.The Rachel Maddow Show08/04/17Duration: 8:35save China leaving US behind on green energy jobs info China leaving US behind on green energy jobsRichard Engel looks at how countries like India are pushing for a greener future, and China is leading the way in wind and solar manufacturing and the jobs that come with it, while Donald Trump holds the U.S. back with a focus on coal.The Rachel Maddow Show08/04/17Duration: 14:42save US adds 209,000 jobs in July info US adds 209,000 jobs in JulyThe U.S. economy added 209,000 jobs in July and the unemployment rate was 4.3 percent, according to a government report Friday. Sara Eisen reports.Morning Joe 08/04/17Duration: 1:38save Joe: After this, firing Mueller is simply... info Joe: After this, firing Mueller is simply...A grand jury has been impaneled by the special counsel investigating possible links between Russia and Donald Trump\u2019s presidential campaign, The Wall Street Journal reports. The panel discusses.Morning Joe 08/04/17Duration: 10:34save Trump plays last year's hits at West... info Trump plays last year's hits at West...President Trump ripped the 'totally made-up Russia story' Thursday night in West Virginia. The Morning Joe panel discusses.Morning Joe 08/04/17Duration: 2:13save Lawrence: Trump begged Mexico for help on... info Lawrence: Trump begged Mexico for help on...Donald Trump campaigned on making Mexico pay for the border wall. Lawrence O'Donnell explains what the transcript of Trump's phone call with Mexican President Pe\u00f1a Nieto exposes: that Trump knew Mexico would never pay for it \u2013 it was all political.The Last Word with Lawrence O'Donnell08/03/17Duration: 4:25save Grand jury signals Russia probe likely... info Grand jury signals Russia probe likely...Reporting suggests that the Special Counsel is probing Trump's financial ties to Russia, a grand jury is issuing subpoenas, and 10 senior FBI officials could testify in Mueller's obstruction case. Mieke Eoyang, Ron Klain, and Alex Whiting join Lawrence...The Last Word with Lawrence O'Donnell08/03/17Duration: 11:42save Lawrence: If subpoenaed by grand jury,... info Lawrence: If subpoenaed by grand jury,...Special Counsel Robert Mueller is reportedly issuing subpoenas through a DC grand jury in the Russia probe. If subpoenaed to testify under oath, will Trump tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth? Is he even capable? Lawrence O...The Last Word with Lawrence O'Donnell08/03/17Duration: 7:08save Details of Mueller grand jury unclear info Details of Mueller grand jury unclearPaul Butler, former federal prosecutor, talks with Joy-Ann Reid about the difference between Robert Mueller using an existing grand jury or impaneling a new one for his own purposes.The Rachel Maddow Show08/03/17Duration: 1:52save Trump situation more Nixon than Nixon info Trump situation more Nixon than NixonMichael Beschloss, NBC News presidential historian, talks with Joy-Ann Reid about the differences between Donald Trump's current situation and Richard Nixon's situation ahead of his resignation.The Rachel Maddow Show08/03/17Duration: 4:21save Trump White House humiliated by leaks again info Trump White House humiliated by leaks againAswin Suebsaeng, politics reporter for The Daily Beast, talks with Joy-Ann Reid about the leaking of the transcripts of Donald Trump's phone calls with president of Mexico and prime minister of Australia.The Rachel Maddow Show08/03/17Duration: 8:57save Senators move to protect Mueller from Trump info Senators move to protect Mueller from TrumpSenator Chris Coons, member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, talks with Joy-Ann Reid about new legislation he has drafted with Senator Thom Tillis to make sure that Donald Trump is not able to get rid of Special Counsel Robert Mueller and his legal...The Rachel Maddow Show08/03/17Duration: 7:27save Flynn discloses more income sources in filing info Flynn discloses more income sources in filingCongressman Eric Swalwell talks with Joy-Ann Reid about the House Intelligence Committee's perspective on the Trump Russia investigation and whether the repeated updates and amendments by Michael Flynn undermine his credibility.The Rachel Maddow Show08/03/17Duration: 6:07savePolitics Trump obstruction case grows with latest lie info Trump obstruction case grows with latest lieJoyce Vance, former U.S. attorney, talks with Joy-Ann Reid about how prosecutors assemble an obstruction of justice case and how Donald Trump's role in deceiving about his son's meeting with Russians claiming to offer collusion with the Russian...The Rachel Maddow Show08/01/17Duration: 9:17save Motive eyed in Trump misleading e-mail story info Motive eyed in Trump misleading e-mail storyBarbara McQuade, former U.S. attorney, talks with Joy-Ann Reid about the legal implications of Donald Trump personally drafting Donald Trump Jr's misleading story about the meeting he took with Russians offering government collusion for dirt on Hillary...The Rachel Maddow Show07/31/17Duration: 4:32save Trump wrote Jr's misleading collusion answer info Trump wrote Jr's misleading collusion answerCarol Leonnig, reporter for The Washington Post, talks with Joy-Ann Reid about new revelations that Donald Trump was responsible for the misleading statement by Donald Trump Jr. to explain his meeting with Russians offering Clinton dirt and Russian gov...The Rachel Maddow Show07/31/17Duration: 9:26save Russia quick to cover tracks after 2016 info Russia quick to cover tracks after 2016Richard Engel reports on how Russia was quick to arrest people who may have had knowledge of, or involvement in, interfering in the 2016 U.S. presidential election.The Rachel Maddow Show07/28/17Duration: 6:01save Russian goal of US chaos already accomplished info Russian goal of US chaos already accomplishedRichard Engel reports on how, regardless of whether collusion with the Trump campaign is ever proven, Russia's goal of sowing chaos and doubt in the American system is already working.The Rachel Maddow Show07/28/17Duration: 9:23save How Congress has tied Pres. Trump's hands... info How Congress has tied Pres. Trump's hands...POLITICO's Sr. Foreign Affairs Correspondent Michael Crowley explains how actions in the House & Senate have made it much more difficult for him to take action on sanctions against Moscow.The 11th Hour with Brian Williams07/26/17Duration: 2:30save Fmr. Watergate prosecutor: Trump 'is... info Fmr. Watergate prosecutor: Trump 'is...Analyzing Pres. Trump's behavior concerning the Russia probe, former Watergate Prosecutor Jill Wine-Banks says she believes the President's actions make him look guilty.The 11th Hour with Brian Williams07/26/17Duration: 2:10save Watergate prosecutor: Everything Trump... info Watergate prosecutor: Everything Trump...As Special Counsel Robert Mueller continues his investigation into all things Trump and Russia, former Watergate prosecutor Nick Akerman says he believes Trump's behavior makes him look guilty.The 11th Hour with Brian Williams07/25/17Duration: 2:35save Sen Wyden on what Jared Kushner didn't say info Sen Wyden on what Jared Kushner didn't saySenator Ron Wyden talks with Rachel Maddow about Donald Trump son-in-law Jared Kushner's responses to questions by the Senate Intelligence Committee on whether Kushner colluded with Russia for the Trump campaign in the 2016 election.The Rachel Maddow Show07/24/17Duration: 4:26save Scaramucci, from day one, out in full force info Scaramucci, from day one, out in full forceNYT reporter Jeremy Peters and POLITICO's Josh Dawsey react to newly-minted White House comms director Anthony Scaramucci's debut, casting doubt on the certainty of Russian meddling in the election.MSNBC Live with Alex Witt07/23/17Duration: 3:00save Intercepted intel: Sessions discussed... info Intercepted intel: Sessions discussed...The Washington Post reports intercepts show Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak told Moscow he and Jeff Sessions discussed the campaign and Trump's positions on issues important to Russia during the 2016 campaign. Jon McLaughlin, Max Boot & David Corn...The Last Word with Lawrence O'Donnell07/21/17Duration: 15:24save Factions within Trump admin use intel as a... info Factions within Trump admin use intel as a...The Washington Post reports that intercepted conversations suggest Sessions discussed the Trump campaign with Russian officials during the election. Fmr. Acting CIA Director Jon McLaughlin tells Ari Melber how he'd get to the bottom of who's leaking \u2013...The Last Word with Lawrence O'Donnell07/21/17Duration: 2:33save Sessions, Kislyak talked Trump Russia: WaPo info Sessions, Kislyak talked Trump Russia: WaPoRachel Maddow reports on another batch of breaking news stories, including a Washington Post report that intelligence indicates that when Jeff Sessions met with Russian Ambassador Kislyak they talked about the Trump campaign and Russia-related matters.The Rachel Maddow Show07/21/17Duration: 21:36save 6 months in, Trump no longer thinks... info 6 months in, Trump no longer thinks...Donald Trump often spoke on the campaign trail about how easy governing would be. These days, his tune is changing.All In with Chris Hayes07/20/17Duration: 6:32save Inside Obama WH plan to thwart Putin's... info Inside Obama WH plan to thwart Putin's...The Obama White House was prepared to call out the U.S. Military to help guard the vote from a Russian election hack, according to a previously undisclosed plan. Time's Massimo Calabresi discusses.Morning Joe 07/20/17Duration: 4:37save Why did Trump warn Mueller not to go after... info Why did Trump warn Mueller not to go after...In his stunning interview with The New York Times, Pres. Trump said if Special Counsel investigates too deep into his finances that would be a 'red line.' Charlie Sykes & Eugene Robinson react.The 11th Hour with Brian Williams07/19/17Duration: 1:46save Charlie Sykes: Trump's undermining... info Charlie Sykes: Trump's undermining...Discussing the comments from both Pres. Trump and the vice chair of his election integrity commission, Charlie Sykes argues the president is undermining our entire election system.The 11th Hour with Brian Williams07/19/17Duration: 4:48save NYT: Trump says he regrets making Jeff... info NYT: Trump says he regrets making Jeff...In a wide-ranging interview with The New York Times, Pres. Trump says he wouldn't have hired Jeff Sessions if he knew he was going to recuse himself and blasts James Comey & Bob Mueller.The 11th Hour with Brian Williams07/19/17Duration: 9:46save Eighth attendee of Trump Jr's meeting with... info Eighth attendee of Trump Jr's meeting with...Who is Ike Kaveladze, the eighth person - and fourth Russian - we now know was in that June 2016 Trump Tower meeting with Donald Trump Jr? Ken Vogel of The New York Times discusses.The 11th Hour with Brian Williams07/18/17Duration: 2:00save Another attendee ID'd at Trump Jr meeting info Another attendee ID'd at Trump Jr meetingRachel Maddow reports on the revelation of the identity of an eighth attendee at the meeting where Donald Trump Jr was told he'd receive anti-Hillary Clinton intel from the Russian government. This new person has an uncomfortably close history with...The Rachel Maddow Show07/18/17Duration: 17:42saveThe Trump Equation The Trump Equation: Shock and Awe in a... info The Trump Equation: Shock and Awe in a...Watch part 1 of The Trump Equation with Jacob Soboroff.MSNBC Live01/24/17Duration: 7:55save The Trump Equation: Maybe It Was the Economy info The Trump Equation: Maybe It Was the EconomyWatch part 2 of The Trump Equation with Jacob Soboroff.MSNBC Live01/24/17Duration: 8:22save The Trump Equation: Minorities for Trump? info The Trump Equation: Minorities for Trump?Watch part 3 of The Trump Equation with Jacob Soboroff.MSNBC Live01/24/17Duration: 6:41save The Trump Equation: In the Battleground... info The Trump Equation: In the Battleground...Watch part 4 of The Trump Equation with Jacob Soboroff.MSNBC Live01/24/17Duration: 10:28save The Trump Equation: Millennials info The Trump Equation: MillennialsWatch part 5 of The Trump Equation with Jacob Soboroff.MSNBC Live01/24/17Duration: 4:56save The Trump Equation: Now What? info The Trump Equation: Now What?Watch part 6 of The Trump Equation with Jacob Soboroff.MSNBC Live01/24/17Duration: 6:11saveMorning Joe Trump plays last year's hits at West... info Trump plays last year's hits at West...President Trump ripped the 'totally made-up Russia story' Thursday night in West Virginia. The Morning Joe panel discusses.Morning Joe 08/04/17Duration: 2:13save Joe: After this, firing Mueller is simply... info Joe: After this, firing Mueller is simply...A grand jury has been impaneled by the special counsel investigating possible links between Russia and Donald Trump\u2019s presidential campaign, The Wall Street Journal reports. The panel discusses.Morning Joe 08/04/17Duration: 10:34save Rev. Al: Democrats have to energize,... info Rev. Al: Democrats have to energize,...The Rev. Al Sharpton and Eugene Robinson discuss the president's rally in West Virginia and how Trump connects with his base and how Democrats can respond.Morning Joe 08/04/17Duration: 8:56save Friday wrap-up: Grand jury and foreign policy info Friday wrap-up: Grand jury and foreign policyAri Melber, Dr. Evelyn Farkas and Jeremy Bash join a discussion about Robert Mueller convening a grand jury in the Russia investigation, top foreign policy issues and Ivanka and Jared.Morning Joe 08/04/17Duration: 8:10save US adds 209,000 jobs in July info US adds 209,000 jobs in JulyThe U.S. economy added 209,000 jobs in July and the unemployment rate was 4.3 percent, according to a government report Friday. Sara Eisen reports.Morning Joe 08/04/17Duration: 1:38save Waters: Trump the most deplorable person I... info Waters: Trump the most deplorable person I...Rep. Maxine Waters, D-Calif., says the president is the most deplorable person she has met, the Mueller investigation and why she isn't hopeful the new chief of staff will organize the White House.Morning Joe 08/04/17Duration: 6:23save 'Is Trump honest?': Lawmakers offer up... info 'Is Trump honest?': Lawmakers offer up...It's a simple question: 'Do you think Donald Trump is honest?' But on Thursday, Kasie Hunt got some mixed responses from members of Congress. Some Republicans said yes and some dodged the question.Morning Joe 08/04/17Duration: 9:57save What those leaked transcripts say about... info What those leaked transcripts say about...The Washington Post published transcripts of President Trump's calls with Australian PM Malcolm Turnbull and Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto. Reporter Greg Miller discusses the transcripts.Morning Joe 08/04/17Duration: 14:36save 'I'm listening to the farmers': Dem rails... info 'I'm listening to the farmers': Dem rails...Rep. Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill., discusses a new proposal that would cut legal immigration by half within a decade and why he is opposed to the measure.Morning Joe 08/03/17Duration: 4:52save Senator pushes back against Trump Congress... info Senator pushes back against Trump Congress...Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., discusses foreign policy regarding Russia, new tweets from the president and a new bill that would cut immigration levels in half over a decade.Morning Joe 08/03/17Duration: 8:46save Immigration bill for working-class... info Immigration bill for working-class...Sen. Tom Cotton, R-Ark., is receiving support from the president over his new bill, which would cut legal immigration in half within a decade. Sen. Cotton says his bill is for working Americans.Morning Joe 08/03/17Duration: 11:35save Democratic senator reacts to Sanctions Act... info Democratic senator reacts to Sanctions Act...Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse, D-RI, discusses the latest in the Russia investigation, new Chief of Staff John Kelly, the new sanctions legislation and health care.Morning Joe 08/03/17Duration: 6:01save Reporter recalls coming to US as an immigrant info Reporter recalls coming to US as an immigrantThe Atlantic's Julia Ioffe was born in Russia and immigrated to the United States as a child, and she discusses her experience and a new proposal to curb legal immigration into the U.S.Morning Joe 08/03/17Duration: 2:28save Trump is 'clearly scared of Russia':... info Trump is 'clearly scared of Russia':...Sen. Chris Murphy, D-Conn., discusses the new sanctions bill against Russia and the president's response, the war in Afghanistan and if the Democratic Party stands for something.Morning Joe 08/03/17Duration: 9:56save What happened in that press briefing? info What happened in that press briefing?During Wednesday's press briefing, CNN's Jim Acosta debated with Stephen Miller over a proposal to cut legal immigration in half. The debate turned heated and personal at times. The panel discusses.Morning Joe 08/03/17Duration: 15:30save Trump below Obama, Bush in market... info Trump below Obama, Bush in market...Following a new high for the Dow, Morning Joe's own economic analyst Steve Rattner returns to the show with new charts on the economy and why he says GDP growth is 'nothing special.'Morning Joe 08/03/17Duration: 9:20save Joe: Democratic leadership still doesn't... info Joe: Democratic leadership still doesn't...The president's job approval rating stands in the low-to-mid thirties according to new polls, but the national Democratic Party still has yet to craft an effective message, says Joe Scarborough.Morning Joe 08/03/17Duration: 13:01save Trump's approval drops seven points in new... info Trump's approval drops seven points in new...President Trump's job approval number is now at 33 percent, down seven points since the end of June, according to the latest Quinnipiac poll.Morning Joe 08/03/17Duration: 3:51save Small business owners get a boost from... info Small business owners get a boost from...Baltimore Mayor Catherine Pugh and small business owners Jeff Hargrave and Chrystal Boykins discuss the Goldman Sachs 10,000 Small Businesses program, from which Hargrave & Boykins graduated.Morning Joe 08/02/17Duration: 4:52save Democratic senator on ways to work with GOP info Democratic senator on ways to work with GOPSen. Chris Van Hollen, D-Md., discusses the coming midterm elections, the path forward for Democrats and ways the party can work with the administration.Morning Joe 08/02/17Duration: 6:12saveRachel Maddow China leaving US behind on green energy jobs info China leaving US behind on green energy jobsRichard Engel looks at how countries like India are pushing for a greener future, and China is leading the way in wind and solar manufacturing and the jobs that come with it, while Donald Trump holds the U.S. back with a focus on coal.The Rachel Maddow Show08/04/17Duration: 14:42save US cities pursue green future despite Trump info US cities pursue green future despite TrumpAnne Thompson, NBC News chief environmental affairs correspondent, looks at how the city of Pittsburgh is pursuing green energy as part of its tech growth strategy as Donald Trump keeps the US facing backward at a coal-powered past.The Rachel Maddow Show08/04/17Duration: 8:35save Top diplomat quits over Trump climate policy info Top diplomat quits over Trump climate policyRichard Engel talks with the former top U.S. diplomat in China, David Rank, who resigned from 27 years in foreign service over Donald Trump's environmental policies, citing patriotism, parenthood, and Christianity as his motivation.The Rachel Maddow Show08/04/17Duration: 6:43save Missed climate goals a legacy of US politics info Missed climate goals a legacy of US politicsRichard Engel traces the history of U.S. efforts to address climate change, from the creation of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change during the Reagan administration to Donald Trump's pullout from the Paris climate accord.The Rachel Maddow Show08/04/17Duration: 4:39save Developing areas skip coal for cheap solar info Developing areas skip coal for cheap solarJanis Mackey Frayer, NBC News correspondent, looks at how the dropping price of solar energy is changing life in developing areas of the world.The Rachel Maddow Show08/04/17Duration: 4:58save China going green to restore blue sky info China going green to restore blue skyRichard Engel looks at how China's coal-powered industrialization has resulted in heavy pollution, and how China hopes to restore its blue skies with a new focus on renewable energy.The Rachel Maddow Show08/04/17Duration: 3:54save Mueller takes next step in Trump Russia probe info Mueller takes next step in Trump Russia probeDel Quentin Wilber, Justice Department reporter for the Wall Street Journal, talks with Joy-Ann Reid about the Journal's reporting that Special Counsel Robert Mueller has switched to using a Washington, D.C. grand jury and what that means for the...The Rachel Maddow Show08/03/17Duration: 10:33save Details of Mueller grand jury unclear info Details of Mueller grand jury unclearPaul Butler, former federal prosecutor, talks with Joy-Ann Reid about the difference between Robert Mueller using an existing grand jury or impaneling a new one for his own purposes.The Rachel Maddow Show08/03/17Duration: 1:52save Mueller thinking ahead with DC grand jury info Mueller thinking ahead with DC grand juryPaul Butler, former federal prosecutor, talks with Joy-Ann Reid about what Special Counsel Robert Mueller may be looking ahead to in the Trump Russia investigation with his switch to a grand jury in Washington, D.C.The Rachel Maddow Show08/03/17Duration: 4:08save Flynn discloses more income sources in filing info Flynn discloses more income sources in filingCongressman Eric Swalwell talks with Joy-Ann Reid about the House Intelligence Committee's perspective on the Trump Russia investigation and whether the repeated updates and amendments by Michael Flynn undermine his credibility.The Rachel Maddow Show08/03/17Duration: 6:07save Senators move to protect Mueller from Trump info Senators move to protect Mueller from TrumpSenator Chris Coons, member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, talks with Joy-Ann Reid about new legislation he has drafted with Senator Thom Tillis to make sure that Donald Trump is not able to get rid of Special Counsel Robert Mueller and his legal...The Rachel Maddow Show08/03/17Duration: 7:27save Trump White House humiliated by leaks again info Trump White House humiliated by leaks againAswin Suebsaeng, politics reporter for The Daily Beast, talks with Joy-Ann Reid about the leaking of the transcripts of Donald Trump's phone calls with president of Mexico and prime minister of Australia.The Rachel Maddow Show08/03/17Duration: 8:57save Trump situation more Nixon than Nixon info Trump situation more Nixon than NixonMichael Beschloss, NBC News presidential historian, talks with Joy-Ann Reid about the differences between Donald Trump's current situation and Richard Nixon's situation ahead of his resignation.The Rachel Maddow Show08/03/17Duration: 4:21save Tillerson rebuffs counter-propaganda millions info Tillerson rebuffs counter-propaganda millionsNahal Toosi, foreign affairs correspondent for Politico, talks with Joy-Ann Reid about why Rex Tillerson is resisting utilizing tens of millions of dollars allocated for countering Russian and ISIS propaganda.The Rachel Maddow Show08/02/17Duration: 11:39save New Trump policy ignores value of immigrants info New Trump policy ignores value of immigrantsMaria Teresa Kumar, president of Voto Latino, talks with Joy-Ann Reid about the Trump administration attacking immigrants in an effort to shore up his base while ignoring the value of immigrants to the American labor force.The Rachel Maddow Show08/02/17Duration: 9:15save Trump laments inability to mine Afghanistan info Trump laments inability to mine AfghanistanCourtney Kube, NBC News national security and military reporter, talks with Joy-Ann Reid about Donald Trump's frustration at the inability of the US to exploit Afghanistan's mineral resources, and his criticism of his military advisers.The Rachel Maddow Show08/02/17Duration: 6:23save Can court make Trump testify in Fox News... info Can court make Trump testify in Fox News...Paul Butler, former federal prosecutor, talks with Joy-Ann Reid about whether Donald Trump can legally be compelled to testify about his role in fabricating a fake news story in a lawsuit against Fox News.The Rachel Maddow Show08/02/17Duration: 6:55save Booker seeks nation-wide pot legalization info Booker seeks nation-wide pot legalizationSenator Cory Booker talks with Joy-Ann Reid about the injustice of unequal marijuana law enforcement and the facts learned so far about the benefits of legalization in states that have done so, leading him to propose national legalization.The Rachel Maddow Show08/02/17Duration: 8:45save Trump obstruction case grows with latest lie info Trump obstruction case grows with latest lieJoyce Vance, former U.S. attorney, talks with Joy-Ann Reid about how prosecutors assemble an obstruction of justice case and how Donald Trump's role in deceiving about his son's meeting with Russians claiming to offer collusion with the Russian...The Rachel Maddow Show08/01/17Duration: 9:17save Trump 'bystander' story doesn't hold up info Trump 'bystander' story doesn't hold upMcKay Coppins, staff writer for The Atlantic, talks with Joy-Ann Reid about Donald Trump's lack of credibility in trying to portray himself as an innocent bystander while his son was meeting with Russians he thought were delivering dirt on Hillary...The Rachel Maddow Show08/01/17Duration: 4:50saveclose facebooktwittergoogle plustumblrinstagramrssHomeHelpTerms of ServiceIndependent Programming ReportClosed CaptioningEpisode TranscriptsPrivacy PolicyNewslettersMSNBC Info BlogCareersAdChoicesMSNBC StoreNBCNews.comToday.comCNBC.com\u00a9 NBC UNIVERSAL"}