{"url": "https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/putins-interference-in-our-election-clearly-backfired/2017/08/03/32fa548c-77be-11e7-9eac-d56bd5568db8_story.html?hpid=hp_no-name_opinion-card-b%3Ahomepage%2Fstory&utm_term=.8109c903e8ac", "text": " Putin\u2019s interference in our election clearly backfired - The Washington Post 2 Desktop notifications are on \u00a0 | Turn off Get breaking news alerts from The Washington Post Turn on desktop notifications? Yes Not now Democracy Dies in Darkness Sections Subscribe Username Sign In Account Profile Newsletters & Alerts Gift Subscriptions Contact Us Help Desk Subscribe Account Profile Newsletters & Alerts Gift Subscriptions Contact Us Help Desk Accessibility for screenreader Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Google Plus Share via Email Share on LinkedIn Share on Pinterest Share on Tumblr Resize Text Print Article Comments900+ The inside track on Washington politics. Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and we\u2019ll e-mail you free updates as they\u2019re published. You\u2019ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published. You\u2019re all set! Sign up *Invalid email address Got it Got it Opinions Putin\u2019s interference in our election clearly backfired The inside track on Washington politics. Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and we\u2019ll e-mail you free updates as they\u2019re published. You\u2019ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published. You\u2019re all set! Sign up *Invalid email address Got it Got it Russian President Vladimir Putin. (Alexei Nikolsky/Associated Press) By Marc A. Thiessen By Marc A. Thiessen August 3 Follow @marcthiessen With his interference in the 2016 election, Russian President Vladimir Putin hoped he could tilt Washington onto a more pro-Moscow course. But after President Trump signed legislation tightening sanctions on Russia on Wednesday, it should be clear that Putin\u2019s strategy backfired in a big way. First, Russia\u2019s meddling has not helped it achieve its policy objectives. Russia wanted sanctions lifted; instead, they have been strengthened. Russia hoped that Trump would splinter the NATO alliance with his threats not to defend members who were not meeting their financial commitments. Instead, allies are increasing their defense spending by $12 billion, the Trump administration continued the deployment of NATO forces to the Baltics and sent an additional 900 troops to Poland\u2019s border with Russia, and the president has now reaffirmed the United States\u2019 commitment to Article V of the NATO charter. None of these outcomes please Moscow. The Trump administration is considering plans to provide Ukraine with advanced anti-tank weapons, including Javelin missiles, and possibly anti-aircraft weapons \u2014 a move that is sure to anger Putin. In Warsaw, Trump delivered one of the most anti-Russian speeches any American president has given in a generation, and proposed a natural gas deal with Poland to decrease its energy dependence on Moscow. Administration officials have also accused Moscow of violating the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces treaty and arming the Taliban in Afghanistan. The one bright spot for Putin is Syria, where Trump worked with Russia to establish a cease-fire area and canceled a CIA program to train and equip anti-Assad rebels \u2014 a move sought by Moscow. But Trump also bombed Putin\u2019s ally Bashar al-Assad and his administration blamed Moscow for Assad\u2019s use of chemical weapons on innocent civilians. Relations between the United States and Russia are so bad that Putin is now expelling hundreds of American diplomats, the largest such expulsion since the Communist revolution. We are in a new Cold War. Second, Russia\u2019s election meddling has boxed Trump in to this aggressive stance for the foreseeable future. Trump\u2019s best defense against charges of collusion with Russia is: Look at my policies. There has been no president this tough on Moscow since Ronald Reagan. Even if Trump wanted to pursue d\u00e9tente with Russia, he cannot do so, because any concessions he makes to Putin will be seen through the prism of the Russia investigation. Every step taken that benefits Moscow will cost him politically at home, while tough stances will insulate him from accusations that he is Putin\u2019s puppet. Third, Russia\u2019s election meddling has achieved something no Russian leader has previously been able to do: It has turned Democrats into modern-day Cold Warriors. In 2012, after Mitt Romney called Russia our No. 1 geopolitical foe, Democrats cheered Barack Obama for mocking him by saying, \u201cThe 1980s are calling to ask for their foreign policy back.\u201d Today, five years later, Democrats are suddenly channeling their inner Reagan. (Victoria Walker/The Washington Post) It\u2019s ironic. During the Cold War, when the Kremlin was throwing people into the gulag and threatening the United States with nuclear annihilation, many Democrats were all for accommodating Moscow. They opposed the Reagan defense buildup, the Strategic Defense Initiative and aid to anti-Soviet freedom fighters and chafed when Reagan declared the Soviet Union an \u201cEvil Empire.\u201d But the Kremlin finally crossed a line when it messed with Hillary Clinton\u2019s campaign. None of this is what Putin was hoping for when he decided to interfere in the 2016 election. There is still no evidence that Moscow\u2019s interference had any impact on the results of the election. Long before the first WikiLeaks emails came out, polls showed that 65 percent of Americans had already decided that Clinton was dishonest and 56 percent said she should have been prosecuted. Moreover, the stories that cemented these perceptions in Americans\u2019 minds had nothing to do with Russia or WikiLeaks \u2014 and most came out many months before the first WikiLeaks emails were published. It was the New York Times that broke the story that Clinton used a private email server while secretary of state. It was The Post that revealed the Clinton Foundation accepted millions of dollars in donations from foreign governments during the same period. It was ABC News that revealed that the Clinton State Department gave special treatment to \u201cFOBs\u201d (friends of Bill Clinton) after the Haiti earthquake. None of that had anything to do with Russia. So while Russia\u2019s interference did not change the outcome of the 2016 election, it certainly has changed U.S. policy since. Relations with Moscow are at an all-time low, and there has not been such bipartisan unity in opposing Russia in decades. That\u2019s actually a pretty good outcome for the United States and her allies \u2014 but not exactly what Putin had in mind when he decided to meddle in American democracy. Read more from Marc Thiessen\u2019s archive, follow him on Twitter or subscribe to his updates on Facebook. (Jenny Starrs/The Washington Post) opinions Orlando Shooting Updates News and analysis on the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. post_newsletter348 follow-orlando true after3th false Please provide a valid email address. Sign up You\u2019re all set! See all newsletters true The story must be told. Your subscription supports journalism that matters. Try 1 month for 99\u00a2 900+ Comments \u00a0Share on FacebookShare \u00a0 Share on TwitterTweet Share via Email Marc Thiessen writes a weekly column for The Post on foreign and domestic policy and contributes to the PostPartisan blog. He is a fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, and the former chief speechwriter for President George W. Bush. Follow @marcthiessen 966 Show Comments Discussion Policy Comments SuperFan Badge SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams. More about badges | Request a badge Culture Connoisseur Badge Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment. More about badges | Request a badge Fact Checker Badge Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker. More about badges | Request a badge Washingtologist Badge Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area. More about badges | Request a badge Post Writer Badge This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer. Post Forum Badge Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs. More about badges | Request a badge Weather Watcher Badge Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts. More about badges | Request a badge World Watcher Badge World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs. More about badges | Request a badge Post Contributor Badge This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren\u2019t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story. More about badges | Request a badge Post Recommended Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post. You must be logged in to report a comment. Sign in here You must be logged in to recommend a comment. Sign in here Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.All comments are posted in the All Comments tab. More about badgesGet a badge To pause and restart automatic updates, click \"Live\" or \"Paused\". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in. Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers. Spam Offensive Disagree Off-Topic Among the criteria for featured comments: likes by users, replies by users, previous history of valuable commenting, and selection by moderators. Facebook Twitter Reddit StumbleUpon Digg Most Read 1 Opinion The GOP has become the party of the grotesque 2 Opinion Black people aren\u2019t keeping white Americans out of college. Rich people are. 3 Opinion Trump\u2019s continued attacks on Clinton tell us why the Democrats lost 4 Opinion Ivanka and Jared, move back to New York 5 Perspective This Trump real estate deal looks awfully like criminal tax fraud The story must be told. Subscribe to The Washington Post. Subscribe Our Online Games Play right from this page Mahjongg Dimensions Strategy game Mahjongg Candy Strategy game Word Wipe Word game opinions Success! Check your inbox for details. Please enter a valid email address You might also like: Sign Up No Thanks See all newsletters washingtonpost.com \u00a9 1996-2017 The Washington Post \u00a0 Help and Contact Us Terms of Service Privacy Policy Print Products Terms of Sale Digital Products Terms of Sale Submissions and Discussion Policy RSS Terms of Service Ad Choices Close video player Now Playing Read content from allstate Content from Allstate This content is paid for by an advertiser and published by WP BrandStudio. The Washington Post newsroom was not involved in the creation of this content. Learn more about WP BrandStudio. We went to the source. Here\u2019s what matters to millennials. A state-by-state look at where Generation Y stands on the big issues. "}