{"url": "https://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/right-turn/wp/2017/08/03/trump-will-blame-anyone-for-anything-except-russia-for-its-conduct/?hpid=hp_no-name_opinion-card-e%3Ahomepage%2Fstory&utm_term=.6e8843f4b042", "text": " Trump will blame anyone for anything \u2014 except Russia for its conduct - The Washington Post 2 Desktop notifications are on \u00a0 | Turn off Get breaking news alerts from The Washington Post Turn on desktop notifications? Yes Not now Democracy Dies in Darkness Sections Subscribe Username Sign In Account Profile Newsletters & Alerts Gift Subscriptions Contact Us Help Desk Subscribe Account Profile Newsletters & Alerts Gift Subscriptions Contact Us Help Desk Accessibility for screenreader Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Google Plus Share via Email Share on LinkedIn Share on Pinterest Share on Tumblr Resize Text Print Article Comments400+ The inside track on Washington politics. Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and we\u2019ll e-mail you free updates as they\u2019re published. You\u2019ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published. You\u2019re all set! Sign up *Invalid email address Got it Got it Right Turn Opinion Opinion Interpretation of the news based on evidence, including data, as well as anticipating how events might unfold based on past events Trump will blame anyone for anything \u2014 except Russia for its conduct The inside track on Washington politics. Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and we\u2019ll e-mail you free updates as they\u2019re published. You\u2019ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published. You\u2019re all set! Sign up *Invalid email address Got it Got it By Jennifer Rubin By Jennifer Rubin August 3 Follow @JRubinBlogger President Trump meets with Russian President Vladimir Putin at the Group of 20 Summit last month in Hamburg. (Evan Vucci/Associated Press) President Trump tweeted, \u201cOur relationship with Russia is at an all-time & very dangerous low. You can thank Congress, the same people that can\u2019t even give us HCare!\u201d White House Chief of Staff John F. Kelly, you see, cannot prevent the president from revealing his self-delusions and own ignorance. Once again, we see\u00a0Trump\u2019s inability to recognize the danger posed to us by Russia and, worse, his own conduct in forcing Congress to act on its own initiative. For starters, Russia brought this on itself by meddling in our elections and those of our European allies, invading neighbors, backing the murderous Syrian regime and engaging in domestic repression. Trump refuses to take issue with all that or to acknowledge that such conduct is contrary to U.S. interests. By blaming Congress, he once again does Russian President Vladimir Putin\u2019s water-carrying. Blaming the West and casting Russia as the innocent victim come straight from the Russian propaganda playbook. Trumps prefers not only to avoid identifying or punishing Russia but\u00a0also shows no interest in protecting American democracy. Numerous intelligence officials have testified before Congress in open session that Trump has never asked them about Russian cyberespionage or anti-Western propaganda. Think about it. Trump will not acknowledge, let alone do something about the tactics of our chief international foe. He prefers that Congress do nothing \u2014 just appease and avoid Russia\u2019s ire. That\u2019s the sort of attitude conservatives in Congress and in the foreign policy community would have virulently criticize President Barack Obama for adopting (and did). President Trump has repeatedly lashed out with insults to defend himself as the Russia investigation unfolds. Here are some of his go-to attacks. (Jenny Starrs/The Washington Post) Trump\u2019s refusal to engage on Russia has been mimicked by the State Department, in refusing to approve a funding request memo that would pry loose $60 million in mandated funds for the Global Engagement Center\u00a0(GEC), which is designed to \u201ccounter foreign state and non-state propaganda and disinformation efforts aimed at undermining the [United States\u2019] national security interests.\u201d Understand that Russia is not mentioned in the original GEC authorization in the 2017 National Defense Authorization Act, so the administration\u2019s slothful behavior means we are not protecting ourselves and our allies from threats from Russia, China or other rogue states. (The attempt by Secretary of State Rex Tillerson\u2019s staff to blame employees in the GEC for not creating a request is false, according to information provided to Right Turn; not one but two separate requests have been sent up the chain of command; the last has been gathering dust since June.) Not only has the money not been obtained and spent, but also the GEC now operates with just a handful of people. Deputy Secretary of State John Sullivan\u00a0testified last month that the GEC is a \u201chigh priority\u201d and exceptions to the hiring freeze were available; however, a request for adequate staffing has yet to generate a response, according to a State Department source. Sens. Rob Portman (R-Ohio) and Tom Carper (D-Del.) yesterday sent a letter to Tillerson, a copy of which was provided to Right Turn, asking Tillerson directly about the GEC. It requested six categories of information, including the \u201cstatus of implementation\u201d and a complete listing of personnel by Aug. 23. There is plenty of cause to worry not only about the $60 million but also about a new tranche of money from the recently passed sanctions bill. In the latest sanctions bill, Congress authorized $250 million for the Countering Russian Influence Fund, which includes monies \u201cto build the capacity of civil society, media and other nongovernmental organizations countering the influence and propaganda of the Russian Federation,\u201d and specifically calls on the secretary of state to carry out the functions of the GEC \u201cfor the purposes of recognizing, understanding, exposing and countering propaganda and disinformation efforts by foreign governments.\u201d The sanctions law instructs the State Department to coordinate with the Defense Department, the U.S. Agency for International Development, the Broadcasting Board of Governors and \u201cother relevant Federal agencies\u201d and requires the secretary of state to report back to Congress next April. The question then presents itself: Is the president willing to counter an identified threat to U.S. national security, and will his administration follow the law in staffing and developing programs to do just that? So far the answer to both is \u201cno.\u201d Maybe the new chief of staff needs to remind the president that Russia, not Congress, is the enemy and prod Tillerson to comply with the law. That might require Tillerson to get out of his executive suite and engage with people doing the work of the State Department. opinions right-turn Orlando Shooting Updates News and analysis on the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. post_newsletter348 follow-orlando true after3th false Please provide a valid email address. Sign up You\u2019re all set! See all newsletters true The story must be told. Your subscription supports journalism that matters. Try 1 month for 99\u00a2 400+ Comments \u00a0Share on FacebookShare \u00a0 Share on TwitterTweet Share via Email Jennifer Rubin writes the Right Turn blog for The Post, offering reported opinion from a conservative perspective. Follow @JRubinBlogger 431 Show Comments Discussion Policy Comments SuperFan Badge SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams. More about badges | Request a badge Culture Connoisseur Badge Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment. More about badges | Request a badge Fact Checker Badge Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker. More about badges | Request a badge Washingtologist Badge Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area. More about badges | Request a badge Post Writer Badge This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer. Post Forum Badge Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs. More about badges | Request a badge Weather Watcher Badge Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts. More about badges | Request a badge World Watcher Badge World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs. More about badges | Request a badge Post Contributor Badge This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren\u2019t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story. More about badges | Request a badge Post Recommended Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post. You must be logged in to report a comment. Sign in here You must be logged in to recommend a comment. Sign in here Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.All comments are posted in the All Comments tab. More about badgesGet a badge To pause and restart automatic updates, click \"Live\" or \"Paused\". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in. Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers. Spam Offensive Disagree Off-Topic Among the criteria for featured comments: likes by users, replies by users, previous history of valuable commenting, and selection by moderators. Facebook Twitter Reddit StumbleUpon Digg Most Read 1 Opinion Ivanka and Jared, move back to New York 2 Opinion Trump\u2019s continued attacks on Clinton tell us why the Democrats lost 3 Perspective This Trump real estate deal looks awfully like criminal tax fraud 4 Opinion The GOP has become the party of the grotesque 5 Opinion Trump is a one-man assault on the rule of law The story must be told. Subscribe to The Washington Post. Subscribe Our Online Games Play right from this page Mahjongg Dimensions Strategy game Mahjongg Candy Strategy game Word Wipe Word game opinions right-turn Success! Check your inbox for details. Please enter a valid email address You might also like: Sign Up No Thanks See all newsletters washingtonpost.com \u00a9 1996-2017 The Washington Post \u00a0 Help and Contact Us Terms of Service Privacy Policy Print Products Terms of Sale Digital Products Terms of Sale Submissions and Discussion Policy RSS Terms of Service Ad Choices Close video player Now Playing Read content from allstate Content from Allstate This content is paid for by an advertiser and published by WP BrandStudio. The Washington Post newsroom was not involved in the creation of this content. Learn more about WP BrandStudio. We went to the source. Here\u2019s what matters to millennials. A state-by-state look at where Generation Y stands on the big issues. "}